+++
title = "The Vengeful Notes"
date = "2024-11-23"
+++

# Intro: Lilya

Wanted: Murky Marbrams 150gp

Epona Wudward, Lilya's governess

Lord Captain Boyle Eastonton, Lilya's guardian Lilya's Squad:

- Jalester Silvermane
- Kaelin Thralson aka Spot, f
- Tormor Stavner aka Shortcake, m
- Elmor Havelman aka Shad, from Rannekford
- Erik Bekker,

Lilya decided to leave Port Surrey with her squad, disguising Henry as a full
sailor, instead of a cadet in the academy.

Captain Norman Northcross, River Corps Wife Brie Northcross nee Malterdale

# Intro: Philippa

- Agrippa Aventador

Crosswise Tavern

Lord Captain Boyle Eastonton is Aigral's uncle, his father's second cousin.

They do not stop at The Wet Stream, instead theyt v

---

Ranris

Balsawood Boat Martina

Stingray Jones, killer 500gp dead or alive

Mask of Petrified Urdefolcin

When worn, the wearer gains truesight in a 30ft radius. Once per day, the wearer
can turn wildshape into an Urdefolcin for 3 rounds.

Shroud of Natural Protection

When worn, the wearer gains +2 AC and +2 to dex and con saving throws. Once per
day, the wearer can summon a 20ft long, 5 ft wide wall of force.

---

Gem Spirit

---

Father Kalmatum, Battle Priest Tidemark, Order of the Angel of Justice "God has
mercy but not me"

Sketch of a woman with two white horses near a shore

---

Martina  
Margaret/Peggy  
Johnny Jonjon  
Jonesy  


---

BDSM Customers

Johnny Jonjon Torwud Maidenfeld Anders Ketherling Edmund Wardcross

---

Honest Toil Yards Coalvil Knarrman Kilner Knarrman

Head of Caravan: Hal Smedling

Kanral Sedgral

Garvid

Sarina Marrick

Emily was taken from Bramsward, Mother is Edda

Danam, Head of the Novitiate, letter sent by Filidore, sent her the Hairpin of
Listening

---

Sister Agatha should know of a song native to her home town called "The Song of
the Swans"

Merkel Eastonton nee Tidemark

Sister Laurentia bodyguard assigned to Agatha Thalvig by the Bishop of Surrey

Sister Erika, Sister Philippa's friend Father Branlis, parish priest of the
Church of the Angel of Nature in Port Surrey

Sending Stones

Lilya <-> Murky  
Lilya <-> Boyle  
Dorothy <-> Guillerma  
Alex <-> Lilya (currently with Minfilia)  
Minfilia <-> John  
Minfilia <-> Murky  
Minfilia <-> Narmaya  
Lilya <-> Malterdale

Marcel Keelsward - Navy Shipwright Quentin Westbram - Ashfall Torters Jarvid
Spellwick

Kevin Mirling, Mirling Bank

---

Laurel Brastok Typesetter, Tenwa Printing

Lady Marshal Olivia Surrata

Lord Marshal of the River Command, Torthir Havenbeck

Western Command, Lord Marshal of the Land Forces, Amphorae Ranterg Lt Dan
Stanford, John and Andrew's superior officer

Lake Wes, in the outskirts of Eastonton

Aliases:

- Julius Campbell, Lord Boyle Eastonton
- Charles Campbell, Mia Campbell
- Gianna Campbell, Guillerma
- Martin Campbell, Aigral Eastonton

The East Wind

---

Goals:

Lilya's Group

- Find the missing Marshals
- News about the Helm

Philippa's Group

- Massage Duchess Antoinette Malthrek nee Thralmal
- ***

Jorica, Reaver, Dead

The Raven has flown to the sea, and is no longer to be seen

Lt. Torba Ranward, in a mission to Bramsgate to suppress an uprising by members
of their local Hickland for Hicks chapter.

Nelson Eastonton, Brother Nandor Eastonton

Baron Lunarfeld's Estate

Olivier Samson, Aigral's Blacksmith Vibrant Velvets, Langdon Samson

Fishwoman Neswen Kagral

Kirnel Kabrast

---

Prestigitation Catapult

Vicious Mockery Cure Wounds Identify

Professor Malterdale, Administrator Professor Tornes, Evocation Professor
Lombargo, Cryptology

Professor Torbury, Military History, not present Professor Bramwick, Abjuration,
not present

Professor Wenward, Criminology Professor Hegfell, Literature and Folklore

Professor Peakford, Co-administrator of the Academy, died of Cholera

Alison, penpal service

San and Dan, Chicken farmers

---

Marcel's Children wife: Kasimer Keelsward nee Mirling, Kevin Mirling's 3rd
daughter

- Marcellus 31
- Flavian 28
- Claudia 27
- Livia 17, could be bastard-born

---

Stacy Cartwright

Monday Marina  
Tuesday Inez  
Wednesday Lollia  
Thursday Aza  
Friday Tharja  
Saturday Shara  
Sunday Katalin

Morning Miya  
Noon Angel  
Afternoon Cinna  
Evening Maerwen

---

Port Ton docks

Cipher wheel. <let's make a physical one of these> 07121276 Seneran Foundation
Day 1276?

Vicente Alighieri, Port Master Port Ton Authority

Eraticate Bug-be-gone

The Rattist Valeria "Do the Rat Thing"

Lord Boyle the Undead Horse

Marshal's Aide Marissa Karnok

Aiwen Paketok, Marissa's Lawyer

Lord Captain Salisbury of the Sea Falcon

Black door, 712

---

iletil kamar gnarstor ilisok

Sir Brandon Skelwick, Bishopsguard Captain

---

Gwyniviere likes yellow bells

Kelthir Kulok, Angel's tutor

Sir Brastok, Angel's guard

Trogdor, Sea Crawler lookout Sandor, stowaway who started working for the Sea
Crawler

Port Sera by Malterdale

---

Order of Civilization

---

Sister Rislas Father Charles Renaldi Father Thrakel

---

Emerald Green Crystal Plate Shard in the Battlements in Malterdale Madam Finney

Sir Duwes, Gwyn's Guard

Branrum Malterdale

Naline < servant of the Malterdale family, Reformist

Matilda, Mulsum Malterdale's wife

Cursed Token of Infertility, placed underneath the bed of Mulsum
Murky Mabrams was the son of a fisherman in the seedier parts of the Narrows
---

Message sent to Uther Rannek from Angel:

> Papa, I returned here in Rannek. I'm heading to the Bishop with Lance. I'll
> try to help. I passeSunday hope to speak with you directly regarding these as I
> return. Take care, I love you.

Message sent to Maria Rannek from Angel:
> Mama, I'm here in Rannek. Me and Lance are heading to the Bishop. I miss you.
> I hope you are ok. I hope you sleep well. I love you.
> Love Angel

Response from Maria:
> My darling Angel, I'm so glad you're safe. I've been so worried about you.
> I love you. Your sister is driving me crazy. Mama.

---

Treaty of Turain Organization, Governor of Sanery representing the Apgarian
Confederacy, requests that the members of the crew of the Principium into their
custody.

---

Strandiz
Emma
Emily
Levi de la Fouet
Narmaya
Trajan

Eastonton

Inez
Renault
Daniel

Port Surrey/Helm

Somme
Rosie
Hedwig

---

Fire Elementals are somehow disabled at the moment

---

Hags are looking for Sebastian Browning, serial killer, successfully killed hags
without them being able to retaliate. Happened well before Lady Marshal Surrata
was able to take over the role of Lady Marshal, about 9 years ago.

---

Gregory the Grinch, was once the leader of the Narrows smuggling guild.

---

Hicklanders in Bramsward
Katya
Nolan

First Priest of the Great Erected One
Minos
---
