+++
title = "Feydark Notes 2024-04-21"
date "2024-04-21"
+++

Alvin created a frame with druidic magic. Lime summoned a *phantom steed*. Strandiz cast a *tiny hut*.
They will travel to the Tower of Hoof and Leaf, from Mitchell Bollinger.

___

Encountered 2 harpies, who was harassing a wood elf named Avan. He and his companion Alice were trying to hunt them, but the tables were turned.

As a reward, he gave them a map of the Fields of Splendor in the Summer Court. Across the River Shalefa, near the Fairy Town. It leads to the Fountain of Healing. 

Shalefa, a really strong sorceress.

___

We pass near a homestead with only a few houses. They seem to be farming successfully in this unsuitable terrain

___

Mushrooms. White capped Oyster mushrooms and Sylvan Caps

Alvin: Blue Gem

___

Tower of the Traveller

Karya
Hedwig 
Somme
Dom
Snow
Emma
Strandiz

Ai
Andy
Alvin
Leanna
Justin
Lime
Melky

Trajan
Caedus
Aza
Adam
Bianca
Lily

___

We arrive in Flyukishilla. Strandiz and Emily are wanted     

Querkus the Tree

___

Flyukishilla Day 1

Somme and Hedwig                                                                        

Jim -> Neighbor

The Homestead is called Deadman Homestead, owned by Buck Deadman

Rumors were it was used as a secret whore house.

Plank -> son of a woodcrafter

Nuenmuller cultural festival happening in 7 days. Major Image Club
Ode of Reginaldus

Gazette:
 - Goblin market
 - The union stays with Valdas

 
Purchased Deadman Homestead
 - Need to stay in White Crow Tavern
   - Lothar Mundric
 
Horatio the "friendly gnome"

Armscor

Alvin
Leanna
Andy
Ai
Melky
Justin
Lime


Hedwig
Somme
Adam
Bianca
Trajan
Aza
Caedus