+++
title = "Rescuing Principium" 
+++

After a few months of planning a recon mission into the Seneran Royal Navy's
Headquarters in [Port
Surrey-on-the-Brahms](@/locations/port-surrey-on-the-brahms.md), news finally
arrived of their fate. La Camaraderie spies caught wind that the captured crew
of the derelict ship, the *[Principium](@/vehicles/principium.md)*, was to be
executed on the 11th Day of the 9th Month 1275. However, many members of the
crew of the [Rozenmaiden](@/organizations/rozenmaiden.md) disappeared on the 4th
Day of the 9th Month during the [Parade of the
Spirits](@/events/parade-of-the-spirits.md).

Depending on when the displaced members of the Rozenmaiden crew return, other
members of La Camaraderie will be forced to do something, since the literal
deadline is coming soon.

The broad outline of what I expect to be preparing for on this adventure:

- The Travel Phase
  - Whether or not La Carnalis and some others are forced to move forward to
    Senera there will be a part of the adventure where the Rozenmaiden will be
    sailing.
- The Reconnaissance Phase
  - While La Camaraderie do have operatives on the ground, and have had some of
    that information related to them, the latest information has not arrived yet
- The Rescue Phase
  - The players are free to do all kinds of shit here, so we will have to
    complete the map of the area, and define NPCs that act and react to certain
    things. However, ultimately, the aim of the Senerans would be to be so
    convincing in fighting against any interlopers, that the rescued member
    would be simply accepted into La Camaraderie as a long-term spy on Raibon
    Island.

We're return to the Thera at the 7th day of the 9th month, which gives us 8 days
to get to Surrey-on-the-Brahms. There are a couple of complications before you
get them tho.

- The Sanerian government is requesting access to the the [Town of
Hama](@/location/town-of-hama.md).  Since it's technically a new settlement
within the bounds of the Sanerian state, it is within its jurisdiction. It is
with precedent, but the issue is that some "missionaries" from the Reformists
were also trying to get in. The Hags of Hama had denied their entry into their
port, and they were asked to remain in their ship. Along with the Sanerian
administrators, they were invoking the Doctrine of the Freedom of Religion which
was explicitly listed as a Freedom in the Declaration of Freedoms in the
Articles of Confederation to demand access. [Antoinette
Dubois](@/characters/antoinette-dubois.md), acting as the Hags' counsel, filed
an injunction to keep them away, arguing that the town is a private commune
owned collectively by the Hags of Hama themselves. Although there isn't any
present legislation in Sanerian state or Confederate law, there is some
precedent where such uncovered cases may cite Silent Age law, so she used
Sanerian Silent Age Common Law. A 910 AI law cited that any new undiscovered
land can be claimed as private property. She argued that the Town of Hama, being
new land not defined within the founding documents of Raibon Island, is
undiscovered. She submitted evidence that the Hags as a collective had
discovered the land
