+++
title = "session 1"
+++

# Death of a God: Session One

## Boat Ride to the Gods

<div class="event-infobar"'>
<h3>Setting</h3>
<hr>
<dl>
  <dt>Location</dt>
  <dd>Posara Sea, off the coast of Sorha Ahuria</dd>
  <dt>Date</dt>
  <dd>1275-07-03</dd>
</dl>
</div>


Korha XIX, hesitant as she was, needed to join the Great Convocation due to her
position as a Prince of the Ahuriyata. It was a divine mandate written in the
Sudras of the Great Ahuriyata himself, ignored at great peril to ones life.

And so she had called upon her high-priest Chian Pashe to make preparations to
depart from their palace at the Kolhan capital as soon as possible, and as
nondescript as possible--she did not want any... encounters with her siblings'
hirelings.

So the session began with Korha's unwed daughters, Faivalkhari and Chariharti
exploring the bow of the merchant vessel that was hired them, and their sizeable
retinue into the Palace in the Isle of the Gods--an island in the middle of the
Bay of Gods, Teheseyata.

Fai and Chari were escorted by Fai's mentor and priest, Matarelha. He was, of
course, giving Fai lectures on whatever little thing that came into his mind as
they continued on their travels.

Fai, unbeknown to everyone, was not longer the real Faivalkhari, but instead, a
face-stealer agent of the [Revivalist
Church](/religions/revivalist-divine-masochist.md), a religion formed from the
ashes of Burtz. Her mission: to infiltrate the Sorhan capital--something that
was yet impossible for both the Revivalist, and their rival organization, the
[Reformist Church](/religions/reformed-divine-masochist.md).

Both groups wanted headway into their continent for reasons unknown to Fai. She
didn't really care, though. She only wanted to impress her master Tourmaline
Sabrege, whose aim was the spread of the Revivalist doctrine across the known
world. So she, known to both religious groups by her other face, the
platinum-haired Sorscha, pushed to be assigned to the job, despite their
hierarchy's misgivings.

She had actually hoped to take Matarelha's face instead, but a week before the
voyage, the real Faivalkhari died of mysterious causes in an empty palace
corridor. The thought of being able to have the latitude of an Ansa royal had so
much allure, that she took her face, despite not being able to prepare herself
to assume Fai's identity.

And so, during the voyage, she had to discover Fai's personality by poking and
probing into the reactions of her confidants and family members. Hoping not to
be unmasked in the process.

Unfortunately, after a short while of enjoyable mischief with Fai's sister
Chari, the ship was attacked. A gigantic squid had latched itself onto the
ship's bough during a bout of strange weather. The squid had taken
Matarelha--Fai calls him Mat--and was bashing him, and the ship itself into
bits. She was forced to use her magical abilities in front of Mat, and though
she tried to hide it, it seems he was able to see through the deception. Because
Fai--the real Fai--had apparently shown him similar abilities already!

Her spells, and the cannons have successfully driven away the monstrosity,
luckily, but the ship was still in a state of utter disrepair. The ship's crew
were able to patch it up so that they won't immediately sink into the Posara
Sea, but they still wouldn't make the entire voyage to the Isle of Gods in their
current state. They had to make port in Port Piya. 


## Detour: Port Piya

<div class="event-infobar"'>
<h3>Setting</h3>
<hr>
<dl>
  <dt>Location</dt>
  <dd>Port Piya, Sorha, Ahuria</dd>
  <dt>Date</dt>
  <dd>1275-07-04</dd>
</dl>
</div>

The ships docked at Port Piya, with 2 of 3 of their escort ships now gone, taken
beneath the waves by the giant squid. Chian sent an attendant to arrange
accommodations at an inn in the Provobati ward of the port city. She was
instructed to pose as a servant for a Poasan merchant family, seeking passage to
a city to the west of the Sorha princedom.

There were legitimate concerns of assassination against the prince and her
daughters, and so it seemed prudent to hide their identities, as they attempted
to find passage overland to the Gateway of the Gods, a port city with ships to
the Isle of the Gods.

Once settled, Fai had taken the face of Sorscha once more in order to gain
intelligence on the mercenary groups in the area. She did not want threats to
the prince to undermine her efforts.

As Sorscha, she visited an inn near the docks called The Pierced Wave, where she
found a mercenary company comprised mostly of non-Ahurian privateers. she posed
as a mercenary herself and found that there was a caravan leaving mid-morning.

Next, she tried to find a more seedy sort of hirelings. From her intel, she
discovered that a group of people are considered untouchable and beyond the
protections offered by the Ahurian castes. These people are called Harsi, literally
meaning excrement, and for civic and religious purposes, not considered to have
the same rights as people, but are more akin to cattle. Legally, they are not
allowed to hold weapons, and so no one hires them as mercenaries in the open.
However, because they have very little to lose, they are willing to do more
indelicate activities for much less.

Most Harsi gravitate toward population centers less hostile to their presence,
and that typically means places with a more cosmopolitan population, such as
Port Piya. Foreigners hire Harsi to perform odd jobs including, but not limited
to  beat-downs, vandalism, more demeaning forms of prostitution, and
assassinations. 

So, Sorscha found a tavern in the Harsi slums outside the West Gate. The tavern
is unnamed and unmarked. The only indication that it was one were the rowdy
customers and a huge bouncer that kept the peace inside it. She again pretended
to be looking for jobs in the caravan. Any job. The bartender, a large,
dark-skinned woman with a buzz-cut mentioned one man looking for a peculiar kind
of prostitute--one that was asking for a service that the regular working girls
of her tavern was not able to accommodate. He needed a sadistic mistress, and
that sort of stuff was not quite so popular in Ahuria. She was told to ask for a
man called Troy in an inn within the Provobati Ward, and that he may pay up to
20 pieces of gold a session depending on the quality of the service provided.

Troy Montague, a traveling merchant associated with a large collective of
traders, was waiting for someone to heed his call, and utter the phrase "let the
mistress enter". He is a masochist, and one so complete that Sorscha suspected
that he might be a member of the Reformist Church. She performed her role as a 
dominatrix very convincingly--enough that Troy could not even dare to withhold
information from her as she asked her questions. 

He said that he was to meet with a prince at the Gateway to the Gods for a trade
deal. He was to deliver the goods in his possession, in exchange for items that
he had no information on whatsoever. After further questioning, he said that the
prince was Purha XVIII. Troy then asked, if Sorscha can come with him in their
journey to the Gateway of the Gods and continue to torment him as his
dominatrix. He said that the caravan he was joining was to leave at 9:40 in the
morning, confirming that he was to be part of the caravan the mercenaries
mentioned earlier in the day. Satisfied with the information she collected, she
returned to her room, took the face of Fai once more, and went to sleep.