+++
title = "session 2021/09/11"
+++

Sturgeon: Purha behind Sorha's death. Caught the face stealer. He confessed. They want updates. We're in deals with Dolo-Dolo tribes. What:s the deal with governor?

Salmon: Deal is to reveal magic in exchange for protection. Reformists still active, but not sending repellers in past 24 hours. I'll relay info regarding Purha.

Salmon: What deal with the Dolo-Dolo? Will they reinforce our position? Magic resistance will help. Nature of protection in the Isle, something like anti-magic field.

Sturgeon: Kolha forms Dolo-Dolo embassy, promised future talks with Dolo-Dolo and other princes. Joint research in facility included. Except info about artificial intelligence.

Salmon: You mean soul trapped in marionette? They've accomplished this feat? Would be wise to keep this a secret. Reformists would definitely want this info.

Sturgeon: I personally witnessed it happening. We don't deal with reformists. Never. Fought 16 Dark Archons and Swordbearer. Know an akkibati regional officer named Yeshre?

Salmon: Reformists are sneaky bastards. They have archons here too. Have met Yeshre. Severely wounded but alive. She was poking into places she didn't understand. Why?

Sturgeon: Planning to send reinforcements there, but not me. Yeshre is Sutevan's colleague. The guy I'm doing. Hide info about AI for now.

Salmon: Akkibati here have no idea. They are hindrance more than help. Yeshre at least had good intel that allowed us to stop repellers. Please help.        



---

Sturgeon rolls 2 and 3 for pregnancy