+++
title = "session 2021/08/28"
+++

### Kyanite

Chief: Pasha
Children:
  - Tonto
  - Char'hi

Prize Fight

### Boleite

Chief: Fisiha

Is a Gourmand, likes to eat new and exciting foods.

Smorgarbord of Exotic Dishes

Sutevan

### Cobaltite

Chief: Mineseta

Garlic Bread Blouse and Lasagna Dress

Yanara

### Ekanite

Chief: Kahamat'ha

Respond's badly to being called a half-human.

Chihuahua

Mat

### Natrolite
   
Chief: Panakulho

Displacer Beast Hide

Iris




Close the border
 - Control the flow of people
 - prevent reformists from taking in reinforcements


## To Yanara

> Any updates?

< ///Tells her about all they need///


Hotdog needs to get the Displacer Beast Hide first thing in the morning.





Sgt Repal'ha night shift 



Judge Tudisha

Damulaha


Guisarma's mother Bardischa

Kontoso



### From Sturgeon to Salmon

Salmon, Stairway is on lockdown. We will deal with the Dolo-Dolo.
Candlebearer face-stealer caught by my associate. Still got a cave full of reformists. Update.

Managed to dodge reformist assault on safe house. Gateway infested. Intercepted another repeller. They have many
it seems. Good to here all is well.

Reinforcements from Manascula on their way, once they arrive, we will make stand, then fallback to your position.
Pure casting is hard here. No advantage.

Eel alive. Found him Grand Monastery orgy. Liver replaced. Eel fucking Piraha. Kolhan Prince took over.2 face-stealerhere, among my associates. Can send help after.

Surprising! Revivalists? Will appreciate help, but it might mean you leaving facility? Once reinforcements arrive, maybe we head there instead. We need something against reformists.

I'm not leaving facility. Can hire friends, spellcasters. they have magic items. Try to hold your ground. Will dwipe here. Planned talks with Dolo-Dolo.