+++
title = "Hick"
[taxonomies]
ethnic_locations = ["Senera"]
+++

The Hick people are the native inhabitants of the island kingdom of
[Senera](@/locations/senera.md). Their identity has largely been subsumed by the
modern nation of Senera, but vestiges of their culture can still be found in the
form of various mystic and religious practices that have been integrated in the
local branches of major religions such as the Church of the Divine Masochist.

In the 1270s AI, there had been a movement to revive the Hick identity and
culture, particularly by an anti-monarchist group named the _Hickland for
Hicks_. King Karlin III of Senera was also interested in reintroducing Hickic
identity into the Crown, reestablishing ancient rites and traditions that were
banned in the 500s AI.

Recent scholarship in the new field of Hickic studies used linguistic evidence
to relate the Seneran Hick languages to substrates of present-day Northern
Apgarian languages and some their more isolated dialects.

# Hick Etymology

The term _Hick_ itself came from a derogatory Kalassarian word _hiccus_, which
meant _local_ or _native_, with connotations of being uncivilized and barbaric.
The ethnic group referred to themselves collectively as the _Ma'al_, which
simply meant _the people_. Due to the preeminence of the Kalassarians however,
and the lack of prior scholarship on the topic, the term _Hick_ came to be used
even by the succeeding generations of the island's inhabitants. The country
refers to its inhabitants as _Senerans_ now, from the Kalassarian name for the
island, _Seneria_.

# Hick Tribes

## Magarisok

The Magarisok tribe is a small tribe who lived in the islet presently called
[Surrey-on-the-Brams](@/locations/surrey-on-the-brams.md). Despite the
relatively small size of the tribe, they were well known for the accuracy of the
divinations of their Malthrenok, or Tide Diviners. Even diviners from other
tribes are said to defer to their divinations, if theirs are in contradiction
with those of the Magarisok.

## Mamalthrekok

## Mabrisgralok

## Maasamgralok

## Mathrantor'al

# The Greater Tribe

A surviving poem, _The Giant of Inespell_, mentions the existence of a Greater
Tribe _mator'al_, is thought to be a coalition of the tribes that fought against
a powerful tribe called the _eldalok_ who had arrived on the island on something
called the _eldegralen asadimris_. The term eldegralen asadimris is a matter of
active scholarship at the moment. Scholars translated the phrase as "The Bridge
to the Eldal Lands", which many interpret as some kind of ship, or a fleet of
ships coming from across the sea. No evidence of the existence of such as ship
exists however.
