+++
title = "Concept Notes 01"
+++

# The Ahore

A religion followed by the citizens of Ahurian lands to the south of
[Posaran Sea](@/locations/posaran-sea.md), [Kolha](@/locations/kolha.md), Ahuria
and Ahurian colonies in [Giza](@/locations/giza.md) and
[Manascula](@/locations/manascula.md).

The Ahore is a religion focused on ancestor worship and veneration for the
divinity of the royal families.

The traditional belief is that the people of the Ahore are descendants of the
mighty Ahuriyata, god of all men, and that the ruling class are the direct
descendants of his first 12 children.

Each of Ahuriyata's children have been given dominion over large portions of
Ahorite lands and a mandate to expand and envelop the world, for the prosperity
of the whole of Ahuria.

The Ahore, and its ancient texts delineate society in a distinct class
hierarchy:

{% figure(src="/images/ahore-caste-hierarchy.svg", alt="Ahurian Caste Hierarchy", caption="The Ahurian caste system showing the hierarchy from Ansa Ahuriyata at the top to Kirsharti at the bottom") %}
{% end %}

## The Royalty: Ansa Ahuriyata

Comprise the 12 princes of Ahuria, and the children of the high prince among the
twelve.

## The Clergy: Ahurikishki

High-priests, royal staff and various eunuchs that serve the god-princes, the
monks and acolytes that make the retinue of the high-priests, the pleasure men
and women made to feed the royal line.

## The Warriors: Akkibati

Those who wield the blade. They are the house-lords and ladies that are charged
with the protection of the lands. They perform tax collection, charged with
providing healthcare, ensure that the laws of the Ahuriyata are met to the
letter.

## The Merchants: Provobati

Those who wield the hammer. Traders, merchants, sailors, craftsmen fall into
this class. They perform the specialized labor of society. They run the guilds,
make crafts, etc.

## The Farmers: Ponsabati

Those who wield the yoke. These are those who work the fields or raise the
animals. They are also the butchers or milkers. From among their number also
come the headsmen.

## The Slaves: Kirsharti

The servants. These are the lowest of people. The kirsharti are divided into two
subgroups depending on their origin.

### Konti Kirsharti

Those of lowly birth, descendants of those peoples who lived within the lands of
the Ahore who had not immediately accepted Ahuriyata as their god and king. They
are kept and provided for by their owners, usually of the Akkibati or the
Provobati. The Ahurikishki have a few Konhikia on hand to handle excrement
within the palaces.

### Pariya Kirsharti

Those who are divinely punished by the laws of Ahuriyata. They have transgressed
so badly in the eyes of his betters that he is seen as traitor to his class.
Pariya are forced to toil in chains without pay, and are kept almost exclusively
by the Akkibati, or traded by the Provobati to foreigners.

# Ahurian Gender Roles

The females in Ahuria are not typically considered inferior from males in their
society, but there is some variation in how they are treated based on their
caste.

## The Ansa

The Ansa, for example, do not distinguish rank among themselves by gender. What
matters is their birth-order and the birth-order of their immediate parents. And
so, if two Ansa are joined by union, that of higher rank is typically the more
powerful in the marriage dynamic.

## The Ahurikishki

The Ahurikishki, similarly, do not have power dynamics based on gender. The
closest to gender politics are based on the god-prince they serve. Palace
prostitutes of a particular gender may be favored based on the preferences of
their god-prince. Room servants are similarly chosen based on either the gender
of who they serve, or of those that their more powerful spouse chooses.

## The Akkibati

The Akkibati, being warriors, do have a preference for male offspring, but women
are respected as mothers aside from being fierce warriors in their own right.
Sometimes women are leveraged for familial alliances.

## The Ponsabati

Ponsabati also have a preference for males due to their utility in farming and
manual labor. The fact that women are physically capable of bearing children
makes them valuable in a different way. Women who menstruate, sometimes at
inopportune times like during planting days, biases their view of girls.

## The Kirsharti

Konti Kirsharti are given different jobs based on their gender. Women are
typically given jobs related to women's needs, such as a chambermaid, or kitchen
staff. Men are sent to do more physical labor, like construction or farmhand for
richer peasant/Ponsabati families.

Pariya Kirsharti do not have much they can do in society, and so they import
their gender stereotypes from their origins. Often enough, they cannot act their
stereotypes anyway due to the nature of their station.

# Class Interactions in Practice

It is completely untenable to expect no interaction between classes of people,
and so it is completely unrealistic to expect that even though the caste system
is rigorously enforced, that interaction is completely prohibited. There are
specified or formalized means and traditions around cross-class discourse
though. There are, of course, non-formalized interaction between classes, not to
mention enclaves of poorer segments of each caste that couldn't care less about
the formalities.

## The Ansa and the Ahurikishki

The Ansa Ahuriyata, being the divine descendants of the First Twelve, are the
object of worship of the cleric class of the Ahurikishki. Thus the Ahurikishki
have the sole privilege of serving them directly.

Many of their interactions, especially with the Twelve, are highly formalized
affairs.

### Morning Routine

A retinue of Ahurikishki cleaning staff, bathing attendants and hairdressers
enter as the Ansa awakens. Immediately, and in pairs, they enter after
announcing their presence in the most polite register, their heads tilted
upwards as a sign of obeisance. The Ansa then beckons them to approach.

The bathing attendants say a quick prayer of penance for having the audacity to
touch the Ansa's person, and for the act of directing them. Stronger attendants
carry the Ansa to a bathing wetstone in the Ansa's apartments as they are washed
with the right amount of gentleness and thoroughness. Then the Ansa is dried
with silk towels and dressed in a bath robe as the bathing attendants say a
prayer of thanks for the privilege of bathing the descendant to godhood.

While the Ansa is bathing, the cleaning staff get to work on cleaning the
apartments, ensuring that every nook and cranny is free from any dust or debris.
They too say prayers of penance before beginning, and thanks after completion.

The Ansa is then carried to the armoire to be tended to by the hairdressers.
After the requisite prayers, the Ansa is clothed, styled and perfumed and
showered with great adulation by the entire retinue.

The coordinating attendant then ushers in the wait staff to bring in the Ansa's
breakfast. A smorgasbord of dishes so the Ansa may pick and choose based on
interest. The cleaning and washing staff take their leave once the Ansa is
served and before they start their meal.

After the Ansa finishes, the wait staff says their prayers, brings the remaining
food to the kitchens to be distributed to the Ahurikishki servants.

### The Morning Briefing

Depending on the Ansa, this may be dispensed of. Most do, however, keep the
briefing as a means of keeping tabs on other Ansa, or to the affairs of their
lands and estates.

The Ansa's high-priests, sometimes accompanied by a high-ranking member of the
Akkibati and Provobati, followed by scribes accompany the god-prince to his
meeting chamber. Of course, after going through a dance of prayer, absolution,
permission and magnanimity.

Upon arrival, the highest-ranking scribe gives the high-priest a scroll
containing the day's news items. They then read and contextualize the entries as
the Ansa listens and asks questions. If the Akkibati or Provobati have some
pertinent information to add during this phase, they may interject after a short
phase of penance.

After the news, the high-priest is handed a scroll with the Ansa's itinerary,
which the Ansa may update according to their will. Invited guests of lower
station are most times, ushered out at this point.

The Ansa may choose to go through the tasks listed on the itinerary at this
point. If they do, they are accompanied by the high-priest, scribes and as soon
as they leave the apartments, are joined by Akkibati honor guards.

## Educating the young Ansa

Ahurikishki scholars are tasked with the education and rearing of a young Ansa
Ahuriyata. It is rare that either parent give time to such a pursuit, but indeed
there are notable instances. Most of the time, a priest is selected by the
ranking Ansa in the household to take charge in the child's education.
Oftentimes, the priest is chosen by his charge as high-priest when they come of
age; again, there are notable exceptions to this.

In order to establish authority, the parents explicitly absolve the mentor of
impiety at the beginning of every mentorship. They usually give a blanket
statement giving authority to the priest to do what he must with the promise to
ensure the wellbeing of the yet-to-be-ascended fragment of divinity. To
reinforce the temporary ascendance of the mentor, the title of Ansa is rescinded
during lessons, and is never uttered by the mentor to refer to their student,
for the duration of the mentorship.

While lessons are ongoing, the student's effective caste is below that of a
Provobati, but above the Kirsharti. After the day's lessons are over, the
student is effectively a low-ranked Ahurikishki to their mentor.

## The High-priest and their Lord Ansa Ahuriyata

As is typical, momentum, even in social contexts requires some work to
counteract. So most Ansa, as they grow into their own, retain their mentor
priests as their primary advisors and chief stewards. They act also as the prime
conduit between the divine and their people in their role as high-priest of
their people.

Most Ansa and their high-priests have a very casual connection in that they
typically use the familial register when in more relaxed contexts. It is not
unprecedented that in private, a high-priest can get away with speaking in a
familiar register with their prince.

## The Ansa and the Akkibati

A member of the Ansa cannot typically leave their palace without a cadre of
loyal Akkibati guards. As the only caste permitted to carry weapons and learn
the martial arts, their expertise is required to effectively protect the royal
and divine Ansa from peril. Aside from his personal guard, higher ranking Ansa
typically have a good working relationship with their generals and their mentors
on military tactics and strategy.

### The March on a Royal Parade

A royal parade is not the only time a high-ranking Ansa leaves the palace, but
it is the most spectacular. It is also the time when the full cadre of their
Royal Guard is in full view.

An Ahurikishki overseer coordinates the procession's initial formation as their
Ansa is dressed. The royal performers come first, some of the very few Provobati
on the regular employ of the Ansa palace.

Behind them are the Ahurikishki Elementalists. Priests whose devotion lie in the
practice of "magic". Their hair is dyed blonde and eyes adorned with golden eye
shadow.

They are then followed by the priestly chanters—those that chant the ancient
sutras.

The Akkibati guard then form ranks, escorting the entirety of the parade,
flanking them. Providing a barrier between the parade and the common folk.

The elite guard surround the high-priest, their scribes, and the Ansa themself,
at the tail end of the procession.

### A Royal Visit

Sometimes an Ansa would like to come visit. Most of the lower-ranking ones may
easily, comparatively, travel without too large an entourage.

Enough then, would be their honor guard. Trusted Akkibati men or women, usually
chosen by the Ansa or their high-priest from the larger household guard.

In most cases, there are always at least two or three directly around the Ansa's
person, with 5 or 6 in more conspicuous clothing scouting for potential
problems.

## The General and their Prince

High-ranking Ansa are typically given leadership of a large army. The Ansa is
usually then advised by a high martial or general depending on the position of
said Ansa.

Typically, this high martial or general is an apprentice. A mentor of the Ansa's
during childhood, or one undergoing similar leadership training at the time of
the Ansa's formative years. As such, they have similar bonds of familiarity as
one with a high-prince, but one with a larger power-differential.

The general or high-martial only has final say if the Ansa gives the explicit
command to do so in a special rite. It is equally common that the Ansa keep
supreme military command or to relinquish such a command to the highest ranking
Akkibati in their court.

## The Ansa and their Tradesmen

There is little interaction between an Ansa and a member of the Provobati.
Indeed, there are more chances for a Konti Kirsharti to interact with a prince
than that of a Provobati merchant. There are certain exceptions of course, and
some common interactions when some counsel is necessary.

### The Entertainers

Most Ansa households of rank hold enough social functions as to have a permanent
troupe of Provobati performers and artists on staff. They typically supplement
the performances of the Ahurikishki Elementalists.

As they are permanent staff members, they are usually on the Ansa's beck and
call, even when there are no important gatherings or events.

Smaller Ansa households have no use for, or money to maintain a permanent troupe
in their retinue. So they have to hire a free troupe. Free troupes are those
without a permanent patron, and accept commissions from prominent Akkibati and
mercantile Provobati.

Different occasions or different tastes call for different types of
entertainment. Troupes often offer juggling, drama, music or animal pageantry to
cover a wide taste range.

### Portraits of an Artist

Most Ansa portraiture are performed by Ahurikishki artists whose sole devotion
is to depict their lord. However, not all Ansa households are lucky enough to
have one on staff. In such occasions, the household may want to hire an
itinerant artist. Oftentimes foreigners are sought, especially ones of great
renown.

Of course, the typical artist goes through a purification rite, as would any
person of the lower castes are required when they are to meet an Ansa.

## The Ansa and the Farmers

The Ansa have even less reason to interact with the Ponsabati caste than most
the others, with the exception of the stablemasters that care for their mounts.
Even then, the Ansa do not have the horse culture that Northern nobility of
Kalassarian descent display. Even with horses. Mostly, if an Ansa has some
interest in horses, they're probably Kolhan.

### The Kolhan Ansa and his Horse-Hands

Due to their very close interactions with Poasah, the Kolhan Ansa and the small
splinter kingdoms had developed a love of equines, and the culture that
surrounds it, like hunting or horse-racing. Jousting, however, is still out of
the question for them however, as the Ansa are forbidden to draw human blood
with metal or wood.

The palace employs a staff of Ponsabati stablehands since handling live animals
are forbidden to even the Ahurikishki.

Most Ansa from the mainland frown upon equestrianism, as Ansa are typically not
supposed to handle animals. Kolhans justify the practice by having elaborate
bandings separating the Ansa from the horse.

Due to this restriction, however, they do not feed the horse themselves, or
personally groom their mounts. The horsehands do these while the Ansa maintains
eye-contact to give the illusion that they are the one caring for the horse in
order to simulate bonding with them. Of course, due to concerns regarding the
animal bond, stablemasters often only give Ansa very docile, obedient animals.

In years past, stablehands were not to speak directly to their Ansa lords, but
practicality dictated that this change, and recently the stablemaster is given a
ritual cleansing before the Ansa makes his way to the stables. Ahurikishki
servants dissolve the stablemaster and is very thoroughly washed with a
ritually-made soap while chanting prayers of penance. The stablemaster is taught
the correct responses to the litany of praise that follows. The other hands do
not do these rituals, and are thus not allowed to directly interact with the
Ansa, unless directly referred to.

# Hunting in Kolha

Ansa do not typically go hunting in mainland Ahuria, but Kolhan princes are
taught the practice as a means of diplomacy with the Poasan nobility, and partly
to practice the Ansa for battle with those same Poasans.

## Justifications for the Hunt

As the Ansa are typically above such base pursuits as hunting, the Ahurikishki
priesthood had drafted a series of justifications that would ensure the "purity"
of their gods. Even as the Ansa had gone on hunts with the foreign Poasans, the
clergy was pressured to explain how such bloodletting is within the
prescriptions of the Great Ahuriyata.

## The Blood of an Intellect is that which is Sacred

The words of the sudra against bloodlust is vague on the notion of animals. The
only specific prohibition is against those which show an intellect. Thus, the
Ahurikishki of Kolha reserves that distinction to only apply to humans. All
other creatures that might display an ability to adapt is merely "acting upon
the instincts of creation."

## Practicality of Peacemaking Dictates the Rules of Diplomacy

As Kolha is bordered to the north and west by a country renowned for its martial
capabilities, the Ansa being the incarnation of gods themselves, must attempt all they must, within
the laws of Ahuriyata, to achieve peace. And thusly, the rulers of Poasah
deem the hunt an essential tool of diplomacy; it is the responsibility of the
gods among men to partake in such sport.

## The Eyes Themselves are Tools to Pierce Deception and Perceive Truth

It is only by joining in a simulation of battle that an Ansa may learn of the
potential foe's capabilities, without so debasing themself by coming to direct
blows. The Ansa may then learn from the foes themselves the ways in which they
would come to face defeat.

## Preparation of the Hunter

Due to the nature of Ahurian society, it is quite rare that a new prince knows
much about hunting and the necessary forms and traditions associated with it.
Even ones that developed in Ahuria itself.

# Local Ansa Hierarchy

The prince isn't the only Ansa in a palace, and the palace Ansa aren't the
only ones in the region. They are also scattered across different regions,
districts and townships.

## Prince and his Retinue

The prince of one of the twelve regions, or the governor of one of the
territories, have Ansa in their own retinue as they are deployed. They
displace the previous prince's staff once the transition is complete. They
would then take residence in either the previous prince's, prince consort's
ancestral residence, or in a grand monastery.

It is rare that a prince be unwed by the time of their ascension. Typically
then, the prince's spouse is the highest ranking in their retinue. Their
children are next. Sometimes, relatives of the spouse are brought along, or
the children's betrothed.

## What Happens to the Ex-Prince's Family?

In rare cases, they are allowed to stay in the palace, except in the case of
the king's family. They are definitely retained in the palace in the Isle of
Gods. Most of the time though, they are urged to enter a grand monastery, or
return to an ancestral home. Some attempt to fight, those are then sent to
become Kirsharti or worse.

## The Role of the Ansa

What do the princes actually do? Are they really a secular power, capable of
making executive and legislative decisions?

Ansa are not mere figureheads! They have the actual executive power in Ahuria,
all channeled through their high-priests, of course.

## King

The highest ranking Ansa, eldest of the direct line of the Great Ahuriyata
himself. Thus the king has primacy in the creation of policy for foreign and
domestic affairs.

They are bound only by the word of Ahuriyata himself—the Sudras of Ahuriyata.

All military action against foreign forces must be approved by the king. Taxes
levied country-wide are also taken to the king for final approval. Laws not
enshrined in the Sudras may be stricken by the king at his leisure as well. In rare cases,
the king is also called upon to pass judgment, or reverse it.

They wield supreme and close to absolute power, should they choose to
exercise it.

Most do not, however. Choosing to appoint ministers to arrange their
affairs, then run through the rituals necessary to put their seal on any
action.

## Prince

Ansa Ahuriyata of ranks 1 to 12, princes are the rulers of their assigned
regions. The king is also asked the prince take in their list of titles.

The princes have the highest power in their region, and have executive
powers similar to the king, but restricted to this region specifically.
They have control over military force in order to police their lands.

They can make local taxation decisions, but may not override nationwide
levies.

## The Prince Consort

The prince's spouse is called the Prince Consort. They are typically given
free reign in arranging household affairs, such as appointing the
Ahurikishki house staff. Sometimes they are also allowed to select tutors
for their children.

They do not hold any real political authority, however.

## The Princely Progeny

The prince's children are typically given the magistratum of each region
prince provides.

Children in excess of the number of provinces are given more religious
positions, or married to other Ansa for reasons.

## Relatives and Hangers-on

Ansa at the end of their careers, like spouse of dead princes may choose to
join the household of their children. They typically do not hold real
political influence, but may have soft power from connections, experience,
or insider knowledge.
