+++
title = "Concept Notes 03"
+++

# Introduction

The dawn of the first millennium of the flowering of the Kalassar, of which most
historians have concerned themselves with, had also sown the seeds of another
Empire in a continent to the south of the Posaran Sea. The Great Ahurian Empire
spread through the Ralakan continent in a speed that was unprecedented.

In a mere 200 years, they've gone from foundation to rapid expansion, taking
huge swaths of territory from the slowly wilting Kalassar Empire. The feats of
wonder they've been capable of in the early campaigns were so effective that
records of how they were accomplished are lost to history.

In about 1000 years later, the might of the Ahurian Empire is at its zenith at
the expense of the collapse of the Kalassar. All this despite the loss of the
advantages they had during the years of their founding.

In the year 1223, however, in the last vestiges of the Kalassar remaining, the
province of Burtz, a cataclysmic explosion triggered unusual bursts of energy
that led to the destruction of the Cathedral of Burtz, the central building of
the Path of the Divine Monolith. Whatever it was that released the strange
explosions spawned a gigantic black orb where the Cathedral once was.

Within a year, mythical beasts have been reported around the capital city of
Burtz, along with many towns in its periphery. Then, scholars have found
something quite alarming. The orb of Burtz was growing, and it was growing
faster every day.

After another year, the entirety of Burtz was consumed. After three more, the
entire central province. People did not want to find out what went beyond, so
they left. In droves, the inhabitants of Burtz scattered every direction, most
of them to the west, where the culture is more familiar.

Fifty years after the fall of Burtz Cathedral, the known world is in chaos.
Strange creatures large and small have begun to pop out from the storybooks into
the lives of millions.

Ahuria itself is close to the largest size it has ever been, with domestic trade
the most healthy it has ever been. Under the veil, however, not all is well.
Ahuria is in the cusp of a civil war, with the recent death of their king
spawning another succession crisis.

## Port Piya

One of Kolha province's busiest ports on the Posaran coast, Port Piya is the
port of entry for trade with southern Poasah, Mir, and the rest of the
secessionist princely states.

Port Piya has, as is typical with most Ahurian cities, a separation of zones
based on their caste. Since each caste is defined along with their roles, they
are also grouped in a pattern where similar industries are grouped together.

The coastal area is split into a Provobati and a Ponsabati area. The Provobati
area is on the deeper section due to the typical heaviness of trading ships.
Taverns, bars, and stores are often lined closer to the ports themselves, due to
the traffic.

The Ponsabati area is on the shallower coast, and is serving fishing boats. Due
to the slightly more lax restrictions and oversight, illicit materials and
contraband come through these ports.

The Ponsabati ports extend into their residential area, and on to the nearby
farmland and animal pens.

The Provobati area extends similarly into the city through a residential area,
more shops, then onto the industrial areas, terminated by some of the more
undesirable and stinky industries.

The Akkibati area, completely landlocked and beside the Provobati area, houses
the taxation and duties authority, the training yards, and the police
headquarters. Of course, the houses of the Akkibati are mixed into these
facilities.

The Ansa area is in the highest point of the city. In the very center of the
area, is the central pavilion, in which the ruling city lord rules. Closer to
the edge of the area is the Temple.

Outside the outer city walls lies the Harsi commune of Port Piya. There thrive
the dregs of society called the Harsi. They are the people who are outside the
typical hierarchy of the Ahurian caste system. Most of the people there are
destitute due to a lack of opportunity. And so it is a hotbed of petty crimes
and low-cost markets.

## Session 4

**Setting:** Little Spring Village  
**Date:** 1275-07-05

Upon arrival in the Little Spring Village, people had begun to settle down and
rest for the evening. Even if the caravan arrived at 9 pm, the Little Spring Inn
had to prepare dinner for them.

While at dinner, there were popular topics of discussion around the table when
the topic of magic was broached. Of course, many of the participants did not
believe in magic, the topic was interesting enough for gossip. Around Ahuria,
there are sayings about strange goings-on.

- In Katsi, a child was said to have been able to conjure a pet that can speak.
- In Piya, rumors of a destitute man who lives in a hut with the interior much
  larger than its size and shape would allow.
- One of the youngest sons of the recently passed Sorha was kidnapped by would
  be usurpers, but was instead found and raised by a peasant couple.

After dinner, Fai readied a night of fun to fulfill a promise she made to Chari,
her sister. After confirming some details with her priest, she went on to
requisition a pair of Ahurikishki pleasure workers.

She was directed to their rooms to choose men who are most suitable to their
tastes:

- **Naturha**: A lithe and tanned man. He is someone you can call traditionally
  handsome, and was a favorite of the Kolhan Court. Age 19.
- **Lahren**: A 16-year-old newcomer to the pleasure house, he has little
  experience compared to the others in the group and it shows.

Fai then directs Lahren to have sex with Chari, removing her virginity. She
plays around with Naturha, but ultimately she does not engage him with
intercourse. Instead, she leaves the lodging to investigate Troy Montague as
Sorscha, the Mistress of the Night.

Troy seems to relish his games in inns different from the one he sleeps in. This
time is no different as he stays in an inn called **The Silent Sanctuary** in
one of the side streets perpendicular to the entrance of the open field used as
the Mercenary Encampment near the borders of the village.

Sorscha had intimidated the proprietor of said inn to reveal the room in which
Troy performs his debauchery. She made her way to room 302, which was guarded by
a man named Todd.

Apparently, Troy had hired a prostitute who had no clue about how to satisfy his
sexual proclivities and so they were both very frustrated with how things were
going. Very confidently, Sorscha pulled on the reins after learning the
prostitute's name: Ada. Sorscha demonstrates how to be a proper dominatrix. She
leaves after asking Troy a couple of questions about his affiliations and
intentions.

- He works for the Mirian Trading Company as a merchant.
- He's selling a couple of things, including arsenic for Prince Purha. The
  purpose of which is said to be for cosmetics, as white powder used for face
  whitening.

The interaction ended as Sorscha directed Ada to do the domineering based on her
example. She seemed to get the basic technique correct.

The second order of business for her as Sorscha was then to take stock of what
the leader of the mercenary company called the **Band of the Hawk** knew about
magic. Gravy, with his golden blonde hair and yellow eyes, was obviously touched
by magic, and this intrigued her.

Stealthily, she made her way to the Hawk's pavilion to do just that. It became
clear to her that Gravy knew next to nothing about magic nor about the
mysterious black-purple orb that he fidgets around with on occasion. Sorscha,
being once a member of the Reformed Church of the Divine Monolith, knows the
nature of the orb. It's called an **Orb of Enhancement** or Enhancer
colloquially. She also knows that the yellow eyes and blonde hair are indicative
of Gravy's latent magical energy.

It's abundantly clear, however, that the guy cannot be left alone untrained, or
alive otherwise, as he has a twinge of the untamed wild magic powering him.

On her way back to her room, she decided to use her unseen servant to once again
spy on certain people: first, Daniel Browning, who, apparently got a room as a
Provobati merchant instead of one from Poasah.

Why the need for the deception was unclear to her as she returned to her Fai
face. Daniel was praying one of the Ahurian prayers of contrition for something
unspecified. It was very suspicious, however.

After checking on Daniel Browning, Fai was then directed to keep an eye on
Matarelha's actions. He was already in his room apparently, and writing on his
journal.

Matarelha was definitely taking notice about Fai's secrets and the power that
she'd been rapidly developing. He had become proud of her achievements as well,
as she used to be very shy and unwilling to come out of her shell until very
recently. Since then, though he noticed her initiative and fierceness—even to
the Harsi, the caste considered "untouchable" to the rest of Ahurian society.
