+++
title = "Sea Hags: The Story So Far Part 1" 
date = "2024-05-20T09:42:29.933Z" 
+++

We've been playing the _Sea Hags_ campaign set in the world of Bastion Falls'
Thera for three years now apparently, and it seems that I've forgotten more
about what had happened than I've ever been able to transcribe in this site
(since I only started this about a year ago). So in an effort to remember
everything that's happened since, I've been trying to collate all of the
disparate notes and pieces of information that I could collect. But I've been
really sloppy with **mzy** notes, and it's become such a pain.

Starting with this post, I will be attempting to reconstruct the events that
have happened so far, using EV's Google Docs notes as a base, then integrating
some of my notes to get an accurate picture of what is going on. EV's notes
might be somewhat more complete than mine, but it's mostly a collection of
one-liners that needs some interpretation now that we've lost a LOT of context.

Also, some of the information in older portions of the campaign might no longer
square with current story-telling due to forgetfulness, narrative shifts,
changes due to derailment--you know, stuff that happens to campaigns when
players start mucking around in it. So there will be attempts to square the
reconstructed narrative with the most up-to-date versions of what's going on.

Another issue is a reconstruction of the dates. EV's notes DON'T have any of
that, so maybe I can get away with making this stuff up along the way, but I'll
have to at least square it up with the current games, where I started actually
tracking those myself. I should have actually made better notes myself, and I do
hope to actually get this right when I start running these games again.

---

# Background

During the last few centuries of the [Silent Ages](@/concepts/silent-ages.md),
the [House of the Dragonheart](@/families/dragonheart.md) reigned over the
[Kingdom of Sanery](@/organizations/kingdom-of-sanery.md), which held a huge
part of Northern Apgarian Territories. They served as a client kingdom to the
[Seneran](@/locations/senera.md)
[House of Maidenfeld](@/families/maidenfeld.md), their cousins across the
[Princely Channel](@/locations/the-princely-channel.md).

However, in the 900s, two successive kings of Senera, in their failed bid to
expand their territories southward and to the east, have lost favor with various
factions within Senera. The noble class who have bankrolled the many failed
skirmishes against the kingdoms of
[Anasai](@/organizations/kingdom-of-anasai.md) and
[Estrega](@/organizations/kingdom-of-estrega.md), have become disillusioned
after many of the promises of land and wealth have not materialized after
decades. The country's food supplies have been appropriated by the king to "feed
the war effort", which meant that the peasantry were left with little to eat.
Young men of fighting age were conscripted into their liege lord's banners to
wage war beyond the country's borders, and because of the mismanagement of the
war effort most of them died, never to return to their families again. The
discontent across the entire spectrum of Sanerian society left the country
especially susceptible to the agitation of the revolutionaries that began the
[First Apgarian Revolution]("@/events/first-apgarian-revolution.md) that spread
from the Central Apgarian kingdoms of Baraon, Carmar and Mayonne.

The House of the Dragonheart was forced to flee Sanery, into Senera in hopes of
garnering support with the Maidenfelds to retake their land back from the
revolutionaries. In the midst of the clashes between the pro-royalists and the
revolutionaries, the House de la Tierre seized control of Sanery with the aid of
forces from the Kingdom of Anasai, ending both the northern front of the First
Apgarian Revolution and the Sanerian Dragonheart Dynasty.

Eventually, the Dragonhearts were able to supplant the Maidenfelds as the ruling
dynasty in Senera and would rule the country until the present day. They never
forgot their Sanerian homeland however. So when the Poasan Empire invoked mutual
defense treaties for a [Divine Alliance](@/organizations/divine-alliance.md)
during the [Poasan-Apgarian Conflict](@/events/poasan-apgarian-conflict.md),
they did not hesitate to immediately declare war against the fledgling
[Apgarian Confederacy](@/locations/apgar.md).

Senera was able to take Sanery two years into the war. Their superior naval
forces were eventually able to suppress Apgar's small handful of frigates and a
mishmash of repurposed privately-held ships. By the end of the war however, most
of the Sanerian territories were won back by the Apgarians, with the exception
of Port Sanery and Castle Dragonheart. Ultimately, the Divine Alliance were able
to force the Apgarian forces into a conditional surrender, but only after
massive losses on all sides. In the end, the resulting
[Treaty of Turain](@/events/treaty-of-turain.md) saw these remaining Sanerian
holdings ceded these territories back to the Apgarians, under the condition that
trade along the [Sarmatian Sea](@/locations/sarmatian-sea.md) was patrolled and
taxed by the Seneran Navy.

In order to undermine the Seneran Navy's hold on sea trade, a selection of
pirates and smugglers willing to work with the Apgarian government were issued
commissions. This led to the formation of
[La Camaraderie de la Mer](@/organizations/la-camaraderie.md) which hid behind
its official constitution as a Sailor's Guild. It was, instead, an organization
formed to streamline the government's efforts to fund privateers to raid goods
from official Seneran trade vessels and their naval escorts.

---

# Day 1

Setting: La Carnalis  
Cast of Characters:

- [Hedwig Rosa Rosenkrantz](@/characters/hedwig-rosenkrantz.md) aka Helda Stark
  - Only daughter of Duke Bain Rosenkrantz of Salicy and Karen Rosenkrantz neé
    Guildenstern
- Jean-Paul de la Fouet
  - Captain of La Carnalis
- Craçoix
  - First Mate
- Somme Privatea
  - Quartermaster
- Cotto
  - Mysterious hooded passenger
- Sister Sierre Leveroux
  - Nun of the Order of the Angels of Delight
- Dominguez Tailleur
  - Deckhand
- Timon
  - Deckhand

On the last leg of La Carnalis' month-long journey from the
[Mirian Islands](@/locations/mirian-islands.md) to
[Port Rainoso](@/locations/port-rainoso.md), a pair of _Seneran Frigates_ forced
the La Carnalis to a full stop and prepare for inspection as per the terms of
the Treaty of Turain. Hedwig Rosa Rosenkrantz, under the assumed name of Helda
Stark, was working as a deckhand for close to a month was unprepared for what
was about to transpire. What she thought was a regular transport vessel, was
actually a pirate ship.

The first mate, a sadistic man by the name of Craçoix, ordered a full stop. The
crew seemed tense, standing in anticipation of something that Hedwig knew would
be trouble. Then as soon as one of the Seneran Frigates prepared to board the La
Carnalis, one of the other deckhands, a tall and gangly fellow named Timon, shot
a ballista bolt across the Frigate's port-side bow, hitting the navy vessel's
foremast. Immediately, the Seneran captain of the frigate ordered his men to
board the La Carnalis, swords between their teeth.

The pirate crew was ready to face the interlopers, weapons drawn. As the forces
clashed upon the deck, it was obvious that the crew of the La Carnalis were no
mere sailors. They fought in a well-coordinated, professional manner that could
have been an even match for Salicy's regular army men. In short order, the
thirty-odd Seneran navy-men were driven off the deck, most of them falling into
the treacherous Sarmatian waters.

The second Seneran Frigate launched a large metal ball at the beleaguered ship,
damaging its aft mast and portions of its hull. Hedwig was ordered to evacuate
the passengers below deck to keep them from harms way--not a moment too soon, as
a metal ball collapsed the quarters that Hedwig and Sister Sierre Leveroux
shared, ruining a prized dress given by Hedwig's parents.

After taking the sister, and a mysterious hooded person named Cotto, into the
hold, Hedwig immediately Ran to the deck to see if she could help. In a moment
of desperation, Hedwig suddenly heard voices in her head: "Come here...", it
beckoned. In that instant, power welled up from within her. She instinctively
gestured her right hand at the attacker. A mote of fire erupted from the tip of
her fingers onto the frigate. The arcane projectile hit its target and burned
its mainsail. The resulting flame caused the Seneran crew to panic, effectively
disabling the opposing ship. The momentary distraction allowed La Carnalis to
escape between the labyrinthine islets of
[L'Illes Apgarie](@/locations/l-illes-apgarie.md).

---

Due to the extensive damage La Carnalis had received from the Seneran catapults,
not to mention some of the injuries members of the crew had sustained, the
captain directed the ship to L'Illes Descargar, a remote islet within L'Illes
Apgarie, to receive necessary repairs.

While underway, Hedwig overheard Somme, ship's quartermaster, and Captain
Jean-Paul discuss the "stash" that the Frigates were probably after. Apparently,
on their voyage to the Mirian Islands, La Carnalis raided a Seneran trade
vessel. They were tasked to retrieve some cargo that it was handling. It did not
take long for them to notice Hedwig listening by the door, so they called her
in.

Captain Jean-Paul noted that what Hedwig had done on the deck was a rare ability
that the ancients called the _Ritma_. Somme revealed that they were looking for
someone like her, and the fact that she had the tell-tale signs of a
spellcaster--her yellow-eyes--was the reason why they accepted her application.
She revealed why she had joined the crew of La Carnalis in the first place: that
something or someone was guiding her to an island in the Sarmatian Sea. An agent
she trusted who used the alias
[Blue Fluffy Unicorn](@/characters/blue-fluffy-unicorn.md), arranged for her to
become a member of the crew.

Hedwig, in confidence, revealed that her name was not Helda Stark. Her real name
was Hedwig Rosa Rosenkrantz, only daughter of Nuran Duke Bain Rosenkrantz of
Salicy and Karen Guildenstern. She told the pair that she suspected that the
voice she kept hearing, as well as her magic, might be related to the strange
circumstances of her birth. When she was young she'd hear whispers from the
gossip-mongers in high-society that her father was impotent, and her birth might
have been illegitimate. As she grew older, she had become increasingly curious
whether or not allegations that her mother had taken the seed of another man,
since Hedwig herself did not inherit any physical features from her father.
Eventually, her mother admitted in confidence that they had difficulties in
conceiving her. They had traveled to a far away land to meet a coven of witches
that would be able to grant them a child.

She hired Blue Fluffy Unicorn, who she'd contracted in the past to search for
various occult artifacts and books, to find out more about what her mother told
her. He found that Hedwig might be what was called a _hexblood_--a person borne
from an exchange with a group of magical women called _Hags_. He arranged travel
for her to head to the Mirian Islands, in order tp find passage to
[Port Rainoso](@/locations/port-rainoso.md), a prominent trading town in Raibon
Island in the western seas of Apgar.

Somme and Jean-Paul then explained to her that they and every member of the crew
of La Carnalis were members of _La Camaraderie de la Mer_, a group borne out of
the Poasan-Apgarian Conflict. Two years prior, the pair served as officers of an
entirely different ship called the _Principium_, with Jean-Paul as first mate,
and Somme as its quartermaster. During a transport operation, they had run afoul
of three Seneran frigates, intent in capturing what they were hauling. Neither
of them knew what they were hauling, nor did their captain at the time, but they
would attempt to escape from these Frigates, to no avail. Members of the crew
were captured, but a few, including Somme, Jean-Paul, and Captain Jethro, were
expelled from the ship as a result of an explosion. They recently heard some
members of the Principium survived, and were due for trial and execution.
Knowing that the Apgarian government would not risk a diplomatic incident to
liberate their former crew mates, they were planning a rescue operation. Since
the war twenty years ago, the Seneran Navy flaunted the fact that they had
spellcasters within their ranks. Tt would be near-impossible for the non-magical
crew of La Carnalis to infiltrate the navy prison complex at
[Port Surrey-on-the-Brahms](@/locations/port-surrey-on-the-brams.md). Somme
admitted that he had an idea that she was a spellcaster due to her eye-color,
and had allowed her to work in La Carnalis despite her obvious lack of
experience.

Somme had offered to help Hedwig find the truth about her origins, in exchange
of membership in La Camaraderie and her assistance in liberating the
incarcerated crew of the Principium. Hedwig accepted, under the condition that
they replace the dress that was ruined by the earlier sortie, and that she be
given an officer's quarters, instead of being forced to stay in the crew
quarters below decks. Somme balked at the latter point, since there were no more
spare rooms--they can only repair the hull in Descargar because of time
constraints. This meant that they don't even have enough room for the
passengers, much less for Hedwig's demands for a new room. In response, Hedwig
proposed the following:

- Captain Jean-Paul move his quarters into the Captain's Chambers
- Sister Sierre, whose room was destroyed in the encounter, be quartered in the
  captain's former arrangements
- Hedwig's expensive dress, which was ruined, would be replaced upon arrival at
  Port Rainoso
- She be given Somme's quarters instead

Somme was inflexible. He did not want to have to give up his quarters for this.
Hedwig could just probably share with Sister Sierre instead, and they would
refund part of her fare. As a compromise, Hedwig proposed that she share
chambers with Somme, splitting the room in two. Somme reluctantly accepted after
some pressure from Jean-Paul. Hedwig then signed a Letter of Intent to join La
Camaraderie, which sealed their deal.

Once the document was signed, Jean-Paul told Hedwig that there was a brothel on
Descargar called the _Shriek Shack_ that housed a coven of hags called the
[Hags of Estrega](@/organizations/hags-of-estrega.md). While they were known as
"hags" due to their occupation as prostitutes, they also practiced the old
traditions that allowed hags to perform feats of magic as a group. He thought
that the leader of the group, Atroya, might know something about those voices.

{%callout(type="info")%} The _Hag_ was an in-world mythological creature and was
prominently featured in Apgarian and many northern folklore. From about the
1000s, the word came to be used colloquially to refer to a prostitute. The term
_coven_, used in folklore to describe a collection of hags or witches co-evolved
and was used to refer to a brothel.

The change in their definition may have stemmed from the stigmatization of pagan
folklore by the Masochist Church, which in turn was due to their prohibitions on
magic. {%end%}

---

After deftly maneuvering between the many narrow channels and isthmuses of the
Isles of Apgaria, they arrived at an islet set upon the bones of dead corals and
sediment. L'Ille Descargar was a platform built upon this atoll, and was known
only to a handful of smugglers and pirates who dodged Seneran Navy patrols. Upon
the platform were small thatch cottages that house the shipwrights, sailors,
merchants and whores that make a living from these fugitives. The platform
extends into a natural harbor where ships as large as galleys might take port
for repairs and relaxation.

As an apology for the ordeal, the captain offered to compensate their few
passengers, including Sister Sierre Leveroux, the mysterious Cotto, and a few
others, by paying for any expenses they would incur while on the isle. Sister
Sierre's quarters in particular, had been ruined due to the skirmish, so her
meager belongings may have to be replaced. In addition, upon Hedwig's
insistence, the captain would relinquish his own quarters to the nun for the
rest of the journey, as her previous room may stay in a state of disrepair.

During the docking procedures, Hedwig had time to converse with Sister Sierre.
Her order sent her to represent their interests in Port Rainoso and the larger
Raibon Island. They heard rumor that heretics were trying to establish
themselves on the island, and was doing so because the influence of the Church
of the Divine Masochist was especially weak on the island. It's sole church
there had only a small handful of adherents, and only one parish priest serving
it.

Cotto, on the other hand, remained quiet, and said only responded with gestures
and grunts when Hedwig tried to make conversation as they waited for the ship to
dock.

Once docked, the passengers and half of the members of the crew, including
Hedwig who was still using the alias Helda Stark, were allowed to disembark on
the platform of Descargar. The crew scattered to various parts of the isle for
their R&R. Hedwig opted to stay with Sister Sierre, and invited the quiet Cotto
to come with them to explore. One of the deckhands, Dominguez Tailleur, whom
Hedwig called Dominic every time they interacted, was assigned to take them
around the island--specifically to mind Hedwig. Dom not only has been to
Descargar before, he also spoke the local language: a dialect of the
[Estregan](@/languages/estregan.md) tongue.

Dom first brought them to a General Store that basically sold goods dropped by
smugglers and pirates who needed to pay for their repairs. There, they purchased
clothes and swimwear to replace some of the ones ruined during the Seneran
sortie earlier in the day. They also attempted to convince Cotto to wear
something other than his cloak. Hedwig bought him a floral designed shirt and
shorts to dress him with something colorful instead. As she brought him to the
dressing room, however, she was surprised by Cotto's true appearance. He had
crimson skin, two solid stumps on his forehead, a pair of goat-like legs, a thin
leathery tail, and an exceptionally large scaly penis in the middle of them.
Cotto was obviously shy about his appearance, as he shied away, seemingly
expecting disgust from Hedwig's face. Hedwig is not one to discriminate in that
way though, actually she was fascinated by Cotto's infernal appearance,
especially because of her interest in the occult. Concerned about Cotto's
distress though, she suggested that they give him shorts that can conceal his
goat legs.

After they'd purchased the replacement supplies, Hedwig suggested that they
celebrate the fact that they survived the attack. She basically ordered Dom to
bring them them to an appropriate spot. He brought them to a popular rest spot
in the southern end of the platform--a group of cottages run by a loose
collection of locals that sold various edible goods and refreshments to
visitors. These locals, both men and women, were scantily clad and
accommodating--ready to serve anything they had to appease their customers, for
a price. The group ordered a local beverage, _coco rum_, a rum flavored with
shaved coconut meat, served inside a fresh coconut shell. Even Cotto, who said
that he wasn't used to drinking alcohol was goaded into taking some, since his
drink of choice--milk--wasn't available.

While drinking, the group started getting more acquainted with each other.

Sister Sierre mentioned that she was a member of the Convent of the
[Society of the Angel of Delight](@/organizations/society-of-the-angel-of-delight.md)
in the [Sonima](@/locations/sonima.md) state of Southern Apgar. The reason she
did not have many belongings that needed to be replaced, was that on of the
Society's tenets was the
[Light of Poverty](@/organizations/society-of-the-angel-of-delight.md#light-of-poverty).
Adherents were to carry what is absolutely necessary, in order for them to more
appreciate, share, and experience delight in its various forms. She also
dispelled the notion that all nuns had vows of chastity, stating that only nuns
from the
[Order of the Angel of Justice](@/organizations/order-of-the-angel-of-justice.md)
had such prohibitions. It's just because that order of clergy were the most
prevalent in Apgar. Outright sexual relations was not banned, but it must be
guided by a sense of connecting spiritually with their partner when during the
act.

Hedwig then ordered a plate of the local delicacy while speaking in the Estregan
language, which surprised everyone, Dom especially. She told them that her
mother taught her how to speak the language along with many others since the
woman was someone who "enjoys learning about different cultures". She, of
course, does not mention that her mother is a Guildenstern, a family renowned
for their patronage and performance of the arts.

The group was served an Estregan dish called _Maherazi_, a pungent fermented
fish with a pasty consistency, wrapped in dried seaweed. She noted that the sour
and savory flavor strangely had hint of the taste of beef. The powerful scent is
usually enough to put off any of the uninitiated, but Hedwig was adventurous
enough brave through the stink, while Sierre and Dom actually liked the dish.
Cotto on the other hand was already too drunk to even notice the scent.

Dom grew up eating the stuff as he was a native of mainland Estrega, one of the
states that made up the Apgarian Confederacy. He told them about his parents and
that he came from a line of garment makers, and the reason for why he left.
Apparently, his mother's shop was being beaten by Seneran boutiques that
dominated the Estregan market in the years after the war. In an attempt to
expand her clientele, she took out a loan to get a shop in a better location and
better raw materials, but something happened that caused her to default on those
loans. Dom left so that he could help pay off that loan. Eventually he'd find
himself as part of La Camaraderie.

As the day turned into night, they enjoyed more conversation and drink. They
began ordering various beers and wines, so they began talking about the Hags of
Estrega and the Shriek Shack. Dom doesn't know about the hags' magical
abilities, but he does mention that they offer pretty good massages.

Cotto, who was usually silent, was also inebriated enough to have been goaded
into talking about himself. He was a creature called a
[Cornups](@/species/cornups.md) by the scholars of Eastern Betera. It was said
that one in five hundred thousand births resulted in the birth of one. Their
close resemblance to the Masochist conception of the Devil, however, usually
causes fear and derision in the general populace. Cotto's experience was no
different. His parents kicked him out of the house as soon as they could no
longer hide his devilish traits.

Sierre and Hedwig were both intrigued by the massage, so they heckled Dom to
bring them there. As they arrived at the Shriek Shack, they discovered that Dom
was apparently banned from the premises - the hags had forbidden him entry due
to his tendency to snoop and eavesdrop on private conversations. While he wasn't
allowed inside, they did permit him to wait outside and communicate with
clients.

The establishment itself was a modest structure, but one could occasionally hear
delighted shrieks emanating from within - hence its namesake. For a silver piece
each, the hags offered massage services. Unlike many of the other establishments
on the platform, the women here didn't wear thick makeup or revealing clothes.

Inside, they met Atroya, one of the senior members of the Hags of Estrega. The
massage room was filled with calming aromas, and as Hedwig prepared for her
treatment, she found herself drifting into a peaceful state. When she awoke
later, she realized quite some time had passed - the sky outside had grown dark.

More significantly, during her massage session, Atroya had recognized something
special about Hedwig. Speaking in a formal dialect of Estregan, she revealed
that she could sense Hedwig's hexblood nature - that she was born through a pact
with hags some 20 years ago. While Atroya herself was from the Hags of Estrega
coven, she knew of the Hags of Hama that Hedwig sought.

According to Atroya, the Hags of Hama were said to have access to what she
called the "deep lore" - a universal repository of knowledge that only certain
individuals could tap into. Most people only had the smallest connection to this
knowledge, but the Hags of Hama could not only access it but travel through it.
However, finding them would be no easy task - there wasn't even a guarantee they
still existed or remained active.

Atroya offered to help guide Hedwig in understanding her abilities, particularly
in the use of Ritma - the magical symbols that served as guides to accessing
deeper powers. She suggested meeting at specific times - the hags preferred
times in multiples of three, such as 6 AM and 6 PM - to begin Hedwig's
instruction.

The conversation was interrupted by Cotto, who had followed them to the Shriek
Shack despite his earlier reluctance. His presence seemed to intrigue Atroya,
who noted that he too appeared to be seeking the Hags of Hama, though for
different reasons. As a paranormal investigator interested in the occult, Cotto
hoped the Hags might help him understand his own nature as a Cornups.

After their session at the Shriek Shack, Dom led them to what he claimed was a
local secret - a hidden alcove known only to a select few residents of
Descargar. The small cove was sheltered from view by a natural formation of
coral and rock, making it an ideal spot for private conversations. Dom, despite
his earlier ban from the Shriek Shack, seemed eager to prove his worth as a
guide by sharing this hidden gem.

The group settled in a cozy and cool pool at the center of the cove, and Dom
arranged for refreshments to be brought - he insisted on paying, though Hedwig
noticed the locals offering him surprisingly generous discounts. It seemed the
deckhand had built up quite a network of connections during his previous visits
to the isle.

As they relaxed in the cove pool, Hedwig shared a portion of what she had
learned from Atroya, leaving out mentions of her being a hexblood. Sister Sierre
particularly, showed great interest in the concept of "deep lore" - though she
was careful to frame her curiosity in terms acceptable to Masochist doctrine.
The nun suggested that perhaps such ancient knowledge could help explain why the
Church's influence had waned so significantly on Raibon Island. acceptable to
Masochist doctrine. But the alcoholic drinks and the cool wind and water drowned
serious thoughts.

As the evening wore on, Hedwig's thoughts turned to more practical matters. She
needed to identify who among the crew was reporting her activities to the
captain. Her suspicions fell heavily on Dom - perhaps too earnest in his
friendliness. Even that promise of "owing her a bottle of rose wine" felt like a
ploy to get closer to her. She decided to test him.

The conversation drifted to local superstitions, with Dom sharing tales of
spirits beyond the grave that were said to haunt the waters around Descargar.
Hedwig took the opportunity to flirt with Dom, watching carefully for any
reaction that might betray his true purpose. When his responses seemed too
measured, too careful, she turned her attention to Cotto instead.

Cotto, as usual, wore nothing beneath his cloak despite the evening chill.
Hedwig, emboldened by the drinks and playing up her act for Dom's benefit,
complained about the cold and ducked under Cotto's cloak with him. The Cornups'
naturally warm body felt wonderful against her skin. In the playful mood that
followed, Hedwig shared her "knowledge" that kissing could make one pregnant -
to which Sister Sierre teasingly replied that it would "only if it's a deep
kiss." Hedwig then invited the sister to join her under Cotto's warm cloak,
noting Dom's barely concealed discomfort at the display.

When Sister Sierre mentioned that her room was still being repaired, Hedwig
suggested they could all go swimming with the hags tomorrow - a suggestion that
made Dom even more visibly uncomfortable, though he didn't refuse outright.

As night fully settled in, exhaustion from the day's events began to take its
toll. The group made their way back to La Carnalis, with Hedwig noting how the
alcohol had affected even the usually composed Cotto's gait. Back aboard ship,
Hedwig retired to her new shared quarters, her mind full of questions about
hexbloods, hags, and the deeper mysteries that seemed to be unfolding around
her.

When the food was ready, Hedwig helped serve what the sailors jokingly called
"slop" - though she noted that their fish stew, fresh and well-seasoned, was far
better fare than what most ships offered their crews.

After the meal service, Sister Sierre waved Hedwig over in the mess hall. The
nun wanted to make a trip to the platform to purchase supplies, and Hedwig
mentioned she needed to look for new dresses herself, given that her previous
one had been ruined during the Seneran attack.

On their way out, they encountered First Mate Craçoix, who made some rude
remarks as they passed. At the platform's clothing shop, Sister Sierre commented
that stores rarely stocked nun's habits - yet surprisingly, this one had exactly
the style worn by the Order of the Angel of Delight. Hedwig suspected the
coincidence might have more to do with smugglers' recent cargo than divine
providence.

As they were finishing their shopping, Dom and Cotto joined them. Cotto looked
distinctly uncomfortable, wearing some clothes that Dom had gotten him
underneath his usual cloak.

As they were finishing their shopping, Dom and Cotto joined them. Cotto looked
distinctly uncomfortable, wearing some clothes that Dom had gotten him
underneath his usual cloak. Dom suggested they could all visit the public baths
together.

During their walk to the baths, Cotto sampled some fermented fish from one of
the platform vendors - his first taste of the local delicacy.

When they arrived at the public baths, they found it was a mixed facility, not
separated by gender as was common in some places. To pass the time, Dom produced
a silver piece and suggested a game of "Sink the Coin." The rules were simple -
drop the coin into the deeper end of the bath, and whoever could retrieve it
first would win the round.

"Let's make it interesting," Hedwig suggested with a predatory grin. Her
proposed wagers made Dom shift uncomfortably: he would have to flash himself to
Somme, Sister Sierre would serve him some mysterious concoction of her choosing,
and Cotto would need to spend a night with Hedwig. The stakes were bold, even
for their usual games, but pride prevented anyone from backing down.

As the game progressed, Hedwig's competitive nature emerged. Her quick movements
and keen eye helped her spot the coin's glint through the water, and she soon
found herself winning more rounds than losing. Even Sister Sierre's surprising
agility couldn't match Hedwig's determination. When the final round ended,
Hedwig emerged triumphant, her victory made sweeter by the thought of collecting
on her various wagers - particularly the one involving Cotto.

The group lingered in the warm waters a while longer, their conversation
drifting between light banter and comfortable silence. Eventually, they made
their way back to La Carnalis.

Upon their return, Captain de la Fouet called Hedwig aside. Her work in the
ship's kitchen had not gone unnoticed - the quality of meals had improved
markedly since she'd started helping, and the crew's morale with it. The captain
made it official, promoting her from deckhand to a permanent position in the
Mess. It was a significant step up from scrubbing the decks, and Hedwig couldn't
help but feel a small surge of pride, though she suspected the reassignment
might have more to do with Somme being Quartermaster - this new position would
give them more legitimate reasons to interact. The captain then announced to all
present that they would soon be setting sail for Rainoso.

Preparations for departure began in earnest. The shipwrights had completed their
repairs, and now the crew busied themselves loading the supplies they'd
procured - fresh water, preserved foods, and other necessities that Hedwig, in
her new role, helped inventory. She took extra care securing items in the
galley, having heard whispers of an approaching storm.

The hags of Estrega arrived as promised, led by Atroya. They began their ritual
preparations to cast their glamour over La Carnalis - magic that would help them
evade the Seneran patrols they were certain to encounter. As the hags worked
their magic, Hedwig couldn't help but marvel at how such powerful magic could be
woven so subtly, leaving barely a trace of its presence.

Before giving the order to cast off, Captain de la Fouet gathered the crew. "The
journey to Rainoso typically takes five days," he announced, gesturing to the
western horizon where dark clouds were beginning to form. "We may need to
consider a detour along the Apgarian coast - it will lengthen our journey
significantly, but those clouds don't suggest the heavy rains we'd normally
expect. Something about this weather pattern troubles me."

His concerns proved prescient. The scout in the crow's nest soon reported
Seneran frigates patrolling ahead - they had correctly guessed that ships bound
for Port Rainoso would seek shelter along the safer coastal waters of mainland
Apgar to avoid the storm. The captain ordered them to seek a suitable cove to
wait out both the weather and the patrol, though he noted they would need to be
cautious - cannibal tribes were known to inhabit some of the western regions.
Hedwig took the opportunity to ask Somme to deliver her signet ring to the
captain, hoping it might prove useful for communication during their search for
shelter.

As they searched the nearby islands for refuge, Cotto revealed an unexpected
talent - he could communicate with birds. Summoning a dove to aid their search,
he spoke with it briefly before it took wing. The bird soon returned, guiding
them to a cove deep enough to accommodate La Carnalis's considerable draft
without risking damage to her keel.

Upon exploring the shore, they discovered the remains of an old campsite, long
abandoned to the elements. Among the weathered remnants, Hedwig found a book
titled "Descent into Pleasure." Despite its age - the date inside read 965,
making it 310 years old - it was remarkably well-preserved, as if protected by
some unseen force.

Hedwig noticed Cotto seemed unusually tense. When she asked him about it, he
mentioned hearing a voice speaking to him during last night's storm - the same
storm that had forced them to seek shelter in the first place. The captain's
earlier concerns about the unusual weather had proven correct; the storm had hit
them with unexpected force, driving them toward the coast.

"I'll dive down and make sure the cove is truly deep enough for La Carnalis,"
Hedwig offered to the captain, eyeing the calm waters thoughtfully. During her
dive, she discovered a chest which she managed to bring ashore. Inside, they
found several women's dresses, including a somewhat sheer pure white one, and a
gold-plated jewelry box. The box wasn't locked, and contained two smaller boxes
lined with blue velvet, each holding an engagement ring bearing a family crest.
The rings were set with real rubies, and Hedwig could sense a faint magical
energy emanating from the gemstones. When she slipped one on, she felt that
magic trickle through her body, and her attention was immediately drawn to the
pure white dress among the pile. Curious about the magical energy Hedwig had
sensed, Cotto tried on the other ring.

The change was immediate and unsettling. Hedwig's features shifted subtly, her
bearing and mannerisms transforming as confusion clouded her eyes. Beside her,
Cotto's form seemed to straighten, his usual hesitant demeanor replaced by one
of noble bearing. They stared at their surroundings, then at each other, with
growing bewilderment.

"Masra?" Cotto spoke, but his voice carried an unfamiliar aristocratic lilt. He
was no longer Cotto, but Crown Prince Hubar of Estrega. And Hedwig... she was
now Masra, a tavern dancer from the old capital, her Ahurian heritage evident in
her transformed features.

"My prince," Masra responded, her voice carrying traces of an accent not her
own. "What... where are we? This isn't our ship." She looked around, confused.
"We were sailing away from Anasai, from your arranged marriage to Princess
Karni. But this place..." Her voice trailed off as she tried to make sense of
their surroundings.

Prince Hubar moved closer to her, his royal bearing at odds with Cotto's usual
timid demeanor. "No, this isn't our ship. The one we took to escape." He paused,
a gentle smile crossing his face. "I couldn't go through with it - marrying
Karni when my heart belonged to you. A commoner. An Ahurian. The court would
never understand, but I don't care." His voice softened as he reached for her
hand.

Masra's eyes fell upon the white dress again, recognition dawning in her
expression. "The dress you gave me. For our wedding. We were sailing to Raibon
to start a new life, away from..."
