+++
title = "Orbs of Power"
sort_by = "title"
+++

# Origins

It is theorized that the orbs of power are crystallization of the interactions
between the magical energies of the different planes of existence that intersect
with Thera. The largest orbs for example, represent points of convergence
between a Material Plane, such as Thera, and a Chaotic Plane, such as the
Feywild.

## Natural Deposits

Smaller orbs which are not perfectly spherical are found in various deposits all
over the world. Many of these were formed naturally, through some unknown
mechanism in cave systems surrounding one of the larger orbs.

These larger orbs have yet do be proven to be natural in origin or artificially
made.

## Man-Made Orbs

Some members of the
[Reformed Church of the Divine Masochist](@/religion/reformed-church-of-the-divine-masochist.md)
have been known to carry small portable _pedestals_ which, in time may form an
orb of power atop it. It is not known how these pedestals are created, or how
the Reformists gained access to them, but these are the only known sources of
man-made orbs of power.

# Types of Orbs

[Orbs of Enhancement](@/misc/orbs-of-power/orb-of-enhancement.md) and
[Repulsion](@/misc/orbs-of-power/orb-of-repulsion.md) are thought of as related
types of orbs of power, in part because they are found in the same deposits. It
seems as though these are duals, related but opposing in purpose. It seems to
Ritma theorists, that enhancers perhaps are a conduit in which magical energy
from Chaotic Planes are siphoned into a Material Plane, while repellers work in
the opposite direction, instead siphoning magical energy from a Material Plane
toward some other.

[Orbs of Endowment](@/misc/orbs-of-power/orb-of-endowment.md) and
[Orbs of Absorption](@/misc/orbs-of-power/orb-of-absorption.md) on the other
hand have never been seen from naturally-occuring deposits. They've only been
taken from captured Reformist agents, perhaps formed from their pedestals.
