+++
title = "Feydark Notes 2024-04-20"
date "2024-04-20"
+++

The real [Quiver](@/characters/chang-quiver.md) is actually alive, but the bad guy is Mao.

Mao:
 - An adventurer that travelled the Feydark
 - Fell into worship of Malabog, king of the Fomorians
 - Returned last year, pretended to be good
 - Doppelganger
 - Brought magic items
   - Dolls: Clothilda, Mathilda and Beauty
   - The dolls were actually *Night Hags*, who intended to setup slavery from within [Jing Shen Jiang](@/locations/jing-shen-jiang.md) into [New Sharandar](@/;ocations/new-sharandar.md).
 - Brother of Yumei, deceased lover of [Winnifer](@/characters/chang-winnifer.md)
 - Used his sister's death to be able to investigate the [Cave of the Sleeping Serpent](@/locations/cave-of-the-sleeping-serpent.md)
 - Copied Quiver's face as a mask

The Real Quiver:
 - was captured but only because he was protecting an infant
 - He was using a *life transferrence* spell to keep the baby alive.
 - Found out Mao was copying his face to do shit, so he had to be dealt with

Ai:
 - She saw Mao dealing with Quiver, while he was carrying a baby
 - She tried to interfere to save the baby
 - Mao cast a *thunderwave* spell that pushed her into the water. She surged.

---
# 8 PM

The militia is trying to keep the peace in the aftermath of the events at the Beggar's Nest.

General Enyo is in charge of the militia, thanked Karya and Andy for their service.

Lord Cals' followers suffered greatly. Zan's parents were once followers.

Moonleaf's Barn 
 - where Mr Pelagius imprisoned Desdemona
 - Now owned by Sterling and An
 - An actually has 7 siblings. An is 25
 - General Nubia is An's mom

Duskpetal took Dom's face

Under the *Gem of True Seeing*, Karya's eyes are similar to a raven's because he's a shapeshifter.

Returnees:
1. Kai => Remy ♀
     - looked for the Cat King
     - Cat King convinced the Satyrs to return with the cat figurine instead of hunting the Cat King.
     - Returned the figurine of the Cat King for the museum at Jing Shen Jiang
2. Sterling telling the story of Jung
3. Guy who sold stuff to Eladrin, will open a shop of elven wares and weaponry
4. Didn't do anything spectacular, but stayed in the Dream Grove. Slept all year.
     - Brought a patch of pink grass from the Dream Grove

Jung was a rogue, crossbow. The broken crossbow is now on display in Jing Shen Jiang

An adventuring guild will be set up. Lancelot will be in charge.

Solah from the business district wants to do trade with Lavona Outpost.

Ling will be setting up more inns for foreigners, who will only be allowed in the business districts.

___

They return to Iskandar via a teleportation circle from Mournhearst. It seems to be hidden in some large pantry. After a number of corridors, they find themselves in front of an old woman. In a room with a floating sun. This is a Chapel of Wonders. The old lady is Madame dela Ponte's sister, Madame Catherine.


Madame dela Ponte wants us to help transport some girls that need saving from slavery within Iskandar. They are to be brought to Lavona Outpost.

Mitchell Bollinger's tent: Follower of Arcadia
Disco guy