+++
title = "The Orthodox Church of the Divine Masochist"
weight = 1
+++

{{ incomplete() }}

*The Orthodox Church of the Divine Masochist* is a religion with a large number of devotees across the world, and is the official religion of many states that have arisen from the collapse of the [Kalassarian Empire](@/organizations/kalassarian-empire.md). It is qualified with the *orthodox* moniker to differentiate from other Masochistic faiths that have splintered off from it.

# Connections to the Arzhadadi religion
Divine Masochism is rooted from the Arzhadadi religion [Mangul-am-Arzhadad](@/religions/arzhadad.md) worshiped in an island off the coast of Giza called [Arzhadi-et-Betet](@/locations/arzhadi-et-betet.md). The followers of the Divine Masochist believed that he was the one foretold by a number of Arzhadadi prophets who would lead their people to freedom against the oppression of the Kalasarian and bring the world empires to heel.

Most followers of the *Mangul* believe that at best, the man called the Divine Masochist is, at best, the latest of many prophets that prepare the stage for the *Arzhadam*, or the raising of the people of Arzhadad.

## History

### The One Appointed by God

In the 2nd century BF, a group of hermetic monks believed that they have finally
found the "one appointed by God", and had raised him as a vicious critic of the
Arzhadad theocracy, and the Kalasarian empire's governance. By the time the man 
was his 20s, Hesse son of Hoseppe (Arsi-tam-Osepi in their language) became a
very influential political figure. His father's lineage was traced by Arzhadi
scribes to a the Lewanan--a tribe of priests that once led the golden age of the
Arzhadad. 

### Marsa's Slave

Hesse, however, was unceremoniously imprisoned by the Kalasarian governor
Pasanian, and was sentenced to death by whipping within a week after his
capture. The governor's daughter Marsa was however, quite taken in by Hesse. So
she pleaded with her father to release him to her as a slave--a gift for her
birthday. He agreed reluctantly, and burned slave brands into Hesse's left
shoulder before handing Marsa his writ of slavery. 

Marsa had always admired Hesse's assuredness, but had disagreed with his many
political, moral and theological stances, so as Hesse labored under Marsa, she
had confronted him with many philosophical problems. Hesse answered her problems
with parables about various people and the fine line between pleasure and pain.

The intensity of the arguments had only become more aggressive, which ultimately
came to one of the first written depictions of sado-masochism. Hesse was so
enraptured by the acts, that Marsa herself became the most ardent believer. 

### The Mission

Theirs was so profound a partnership, that thousands upon thousands watched
their demonstrations, which was interspersed with Hesse's teachings about the
importance of the application of pain and suffering to understand the meaning of
pleasure and love.

The two had amassed a large number of followers, including some prominent
religious scholars, most of whom once derided Hesse as a fraud. The doctrine of
the masochist also drew in convicts said to have been wrongfully accused, and
had been forced to know pain. The governor's third son, Marsa's half-brother
Meahu was also enamored, and eventually became one of the most devout followers.

The Arzhadad religious establishment, however, viewed Hesse's teachings to be
unorthodox and dangerous, most profoundly, in their view, was the religious
position Marsa was being given as their followers have come to view her as the
Venerable Matron. The subservient role that Hesse apparently took was
misconstrued as acceptance of slavery, which both Hesse and Marsa vehemently
denied. 

On the 5th year of preaching, a novice follower and a partner had performed some
acts of sado-masochism, but had gone too far, leading to severe internal
bleeding and death. It was all the Arzhadad theocracy needed to have cause to
incarcerate Hesse and Marsa. They had implored the governor to execute him,
using the prophecy as proof that the true goal of the mission was to undermine
the Kalasarian regime, and to recruit rebels to fight. Stories of mass
gatherings have been common enough that the governor had reason to believe the
report. Governor Pasarian then ordered Hesse and his daughter captured.


## Beliefs



### The Divine Masochist

### The Venerable Mother

### The Angels of Creation and the Demons of Ruin

The Angels of Creation were creatures of immense power, said to have been
endowed by God himself with the powers of creation. However, as they were
enacting His plan, they have begun to question the merits of certain points of
the Grand Plan. After they had come to complete construction of the universe,
they have perceived what they thought of as imperfections in the fabric of the
universe, focusing on the portfolio bestowed upon them.

The extreme focus had led them to lose sight of the greater purpose of the Plan.
They obsessed in the primacy of their domains, that they have turned into dark,
destructive versions of themselves. If they see something that goes beyond their
mandate, they immediately seek to destroy it.

The Angels of Creation were not part of the original canon of scripture of the
early Church. It had been an extremely popular novel, which incorporated
religious themes from the displaced pagan religions of the Kalasar. The story
continued with the Venerable Mother and the Divine Masochist, preaching in the
desert, where they were confronted by the demons one by one. The Divine
Masochist's teachings and miracles have, through the acceptance of pain, and its
release, reformed the demons and had turned them back to angels.

#### The Angel of Humility / The Demon of Inhibition

#### The Angel of Justice / The Demon of Intolerance

#### The Angel of Delight / The Demon of Debauchery

#### The Angel of Nature / The Demon of Pestilence

#### The Angel of Civilization / The Demon of Hubris

## Hierarchy

## Relics

## Canon

## Apologia