+++
title = "Journal of Irina Korvic"
+++

# Day 1 of the Expedition to the Mountains of Iron

Today, we embark on our journet to find the remains of a once mighty kingdom
nestled within the peaks of the Mountains of Iron. The mysterious monarchy
described by some of the more obscure Kalassarian histories as the Kureran
Culture.

I have been quite fortunate in being chosen to accompany the great scholar Ivan
Kolyankovic in this historic expedition. I write this entry as we depart from
our College at Castle Astow. To keep it short, I am excited at the prospect. We
may finally find hints about the strange births of green-skinned infants after
the appearance of the Orb of Burtz. The appearance of these children closely
match the written descriptions of the Kureran people.

# Day 2

We've purchased very convincing forgeries of Poasan credentials to be able to
cross the border into Acqua Termina. There, we will make our way north into the
mining town of Brol. From there we will attempt to trace paths described in our
Kalassarian manuscripts. We may have been able to, instead approached the
mountains from Port Imago by way of Kosavostok Bay, but that would only delay
our expedition for weeks from all the necessary bargaining and paperwork.

All in the name of discovery!

# Day 5

We finally arriveed at Acqua Termina. It's a disgusting little Poasan town at
the mouth of River Acqua. Litter scattered everywhere, with the stench of rot
emanating from the many open sewers everywhere. Badly built ports that, at
times, do not have enough water for even flatships to dock. They would do well
to add weirs or floodgates to stabilize the water level.

We are currently weighing our options. We may continue on foot, which may be
slower, but we would remove the risk of riding vessels that may run aground and
waste valuable resources without saving any time. Considering our equipment
though, and the perilous road through the wilderness, we may be better off
risking the voyage within the flatships.

# Day 7

We chose to travel by land, and it may have been a mistake. We had to fend off a
particularly persistent pack of plunderers that had, many times, attempted to
raid our well-supplied caravan in the dead of night. Poasah is truly a haven for
all sorts of vermin. I miss Tanduaria sorely.

# Day 10

Quite astonishing! Our guides have led us through a very well-hidden trail along
the mountain wall. I was loathe to distance our group from the scenic mountain
road on our way to Khriss settlement, but the sheer anthropological interest in
paths and caves that were excavated using primitive tools was too great to pass
up. Extraordinary! The dimensions of the ---

**The rest of the page is unreadable due to extensive water damage**

# Day 13

After four full days of travel along the man-made paths that were painstakingly
carved by primitive, stone tools that built these hidden walkways through the
mountains, we've finally arrived at Khriss. It took us much longer than we
anticipated, given that we've cut through a substantial portion of travel, if we
followed the main road, but we're here now, finally. We've been assaulted by
sudden storms that forced us to take refuge. It would sound miserable, because
for the most part, it was, but the man-made caves that the pre-historic people
have build along the mountain paths provided us with a much-needed respite, not
to mention new locations of interest to document and study. Thank the Divine
Masochist for these, otherwise we would have frozen to death.

# Day 14

Our first night at Khriss Settlement was very restful. The settlement itself,
now that we've spent part of the day with the local prospectors and their
families, I've come to like this place a lot. The people of this burgeoning
community are very friendly and hospitable, full of optimism. Their look forward
to exploring the rich veins of ore that are naturally grafted within rocks of
this vast mountain range. If only Tanduaria was so fortunate to have access to
all of this raw natural resource.

The latter portion of our travel, though interesting to say the least, was quite
exhausting. We have learned a great deal already, but now we must begin the real
work. Tomorrow we will explore some artifacts that may have connections with the
elusive Kurerans. Hopefully this is not another shameless fabrication.

# Day 15

Not Kurerans yet, but we now have archaeological evidence that the Kalassarians
had a mining community here in Khriss! Miners have found a cache of pickaxes,
shovels, and other mining tools that seem to be consistent with our
understanding of Kalassarian mining techniques.

However, no traces of artifacts that may be contemporary with Kureran culture.
Kalassarian records that we do have mention that by the time when these
particular tools were in use, the Kurerans have already disappeared or died out.
It is disappointing considering the purpose of this expedition, but this find
is still monumental in its importance.

**More pages are either missing or unreadable**

# Day 35

We may have finally found the the correct trail to Korad Pass again! We're deep
in the forests of these valleys in the Mountains of Iron. Our cartographer, Dog
is making sense of where we are in relation to the maps he'd been compiling. We
must be close. There are even markings that match the few descriptions the
Kalassarians have about it.

# Day 37

We lost sight of the trail again. Many are getting anxious, and Dog tells me
that the markers that he'd placed were either dislodged somehow, or have been
tampered with. We need to find some kind of clearing to get our bearings.

# Day 45

We're no longer running in circles, but we're also not making any progress. We
found a cavern system yesterday, but it was absolutely empty. There may be
biological systems that would make natural historians very happy, but no new
signs of the Kurerans. We've been here for weeks now, and we're no closer to
finding the remains of the Kureran Kingdom. We may need to head back to Khriss
soon, to regroup, reassess and resupply. I have no intentions of giving up now.

# Day 50

Our assessment of our disastrous first run: 5 people dead, and many of our
guides have left us, convinced that this expedition is cursed. I don't want to
give up, but we might not have enough staff to attempt this again, despite the
soundness of our revised plan.

# Day 51

As our negotiatins with the guides and some locals regarding an
extended search have floundered, I found myself wandering close to the old,
condemned tunnels in the Khriss mineshafts. Specifically, those ones that had
Kalassarian markings on them. Our geologist tells me that many of the fractures
here don't seem consistent with erosion pattern. There is a chance that these
have been collapsed intentionally. The local miners tell us that it isn't that
unusual. Many shafts are collapsed intentionally, either due to something on the
other side that might prove risky, or because of structural instability in the
shaft itself.

Ivan sides with the miners here. He says that we might be biased towards finding
something when there is nothing to find. My gut says otherwise, but I can't
discount the possibility that I'm losing objectivity.

# Day 52

We're heading home. What a waste. We ARE getting close, I can feel it! There is
something here that is just passed that last ridge. If these damned
superstitious morons would just get with the times, we could continue!

Alas, we cannot afford to antagonize these people. Not just the guides, but the
mercenaries we brought with us. Some of these disloyal bastards might report us
to the Poasah border authorities, and we'd lose our chance to return in the
future.

# Day 53

We now return to Tanduaria in shame. We've not found what we came searching for,
lost a number of the most intelligent scholars of our time, and I have lost my
faith in my own abilities, and that of my once-cherished mentor. Ivan just
doesn't want this as much as I do.

We failed this quest now, but I WILL return. With a better crew and a more sound
plan. Does Ivan not realize that the Fall of Kurera may just be the what we need
to make sense of our future? The disappearance of the Kurerans, of Ritma itself,
and it's connection to the Orb of Burtz is definitely connected, and I will find
this connection, or die trying.
