+++
title = "The Elven Boons"
+++

# History

After years of brutal hardship and subservience to the giants during the tail
end of the [Draco-Giant Wars](@/events/draco-giant-war.md), a group of fey folk,
Elves, Gnomes and others have banded together to gain favor from the Archfey of
the Seelie Court. These fair folk wished to explore other realms across the Fey
Crossings that sometimes appear across the Feywild.

These fey, a host of elves of many different lineages, succeeded in the tasks
set upon them by the Archfey, and were gifted with powerful magical artifacts
that would protect them during their attempts to cross into unknown realms. Each
of the Four Archfey of the Seasonal Courts gifted the host one artifact:

The Green Lord, King Oberon bestowed upon them the Emerald Shield of Spring.

The Summer Queen Titania granted the Topaz Ring of Summer.

The Autumn Queen Arcadia awarded them the Ruby Amulet of Fall.

The Frost Prince conferred upon them the Sapphire Brooch of Winter.

These four artifacts together, safely allowed them to traverse the planes, and
had led them to the island of Senera, where they would find succor and refuge
from the giants and their tyranny.

The island was home to the tribes of the Ma'al, as they called themselves. These
tribes saw the arrival of the elven host from across the sky via what they
called the Elven Bridge Above, _eldegralen asadimris_. As the elves descended,
The seers of the different tribes were at odds at what their arrival meant. The
Malthren of the Mamalthrekok tribe heralded the elves as bringers of great
prosperity and peace, but the Malthren of the Magarisok saw that the elves bring
with them a great danger. After great debate however, the tribes agreed to grant
the elves havens in their lands, and the elves, in turn agreed that such a great
gift must be reciprocated in accordance with the practice of Fey Deals.

Thus the gemstones granted by the Archfey to the Elves were given as the
Elven Boons.

# The Boons and their Effects

## The Emerald Shield of Spring

The Emerald Shield of Spring was given to the Maasamgralok tribe, who found
kinship with the Plain Elves who were first to arrive on the island. They were
one the firmest advocates for the elves to ally with the Ma'al.

## The Topaz Ring of Summer

The Topaz Ring of Summer was given to the Mabrisgralok tribe, whose comfortable
warmth and abundance were a match with the

## The Ruby Amulet of Fall

The Ruby Amulet of Fall was given to the Magarisok tribe, who were the most wary
of the Elves, and were the most skeptical of their intentions. The Ruby Amulet
was a promise that would allow the Ma'al to protect themselves from a broken pact.

## The Sapphire Brooch of Winter

The Sapphire Brooch of Winter was given to the Mamirok tribe, whose cold
hardiness and resilience resonated with the artifact itself.
