+++
title = "The Kalassarians and the Magarisok"
+++

The many natural traps and treacherous approaches, not to mention the mystical
force that envelopes the Gulf of Inespell had beleaguered Kalassarian explorers
gasp in relief at the sight of land. They were on their last legs when they came
upon a tiny islet at the gullet of the gulf, right at the mouth of an estuary
with deep natural harbors on its north bank.

They called their settlement _Surrata: safe harbor_ in their language, and the
lands around this little islet, _Seneria: the Land of Glamour_. Of course, the
islet itself was already inhabited by the _Hick_ peoples, in particular, the
tribe of the _Magarisok_, who called it _Garbasam: the Stone upon the Flow_.

The Magarisok were wary of the newcomers, but their ways of hospitality had
demanded that that they welcome these exhausted travelers upon their shores. The
Kalassarians, however, had specific goals in mind when they sailed to this land.

Eventually, the Kalassarians summoned their friends, and other monsters to take
the island for themselves. The Magarisok, however, had the natural magicks of
the Keelswood to help them defend their home. But Thirbao of the Malthren had
foreseen the great death that the Kalassarians would bring. He had implored the
spirits of the wood to instead forestall his own people from fighting. He
implored the Magarisok to accept the Kalassarians as their lords. He shared with
them all that he saw in his night-visions.

The Kalassarians rewarded Thirbao for his intercession, and he was made the
Thane of the Magarisok. The Magarisok, in turn, swore fealty to the Kalassarians
and became their most faithful and loyal allies.

The Kalassarians did not meddle with the internal affairs of the Magarisok, but
they have expanded their own settlement on the northeastern side of what is now
Surrey-on-the-Brams.
