+++
title = "Feydark Notes 2024-04-21"
date "2024-04-21"
+++

Alvin created a frame with druidic magic. Lime summoned a *phantom steed*. Strandiz cast a *tiny hut*.
They will travel to the Tower of Hoof and Leaf, from Mitchell Bollinger.

___

Encountered 2 harpies, who was harassing a wood elf named Avan. He and his companion Alice were trying to hunt them, but the tables were turned.

As a reward, he gave them a map of the Fields of Splendor in the Summer Court. Across the River Shalefa, near the Fairy Town. It leads to the Fountain of Healing. 

Shalefa, a really strong sorceress.

___

We pass near a homestead with only a few houses. They seem to be farming successfully in this unsuitable terrain

___

Mushrooms. White capped Oyster mushrooms and Sylvan Caps

Alvin: Blue Gem

___

Tower of the Traveller

Karya
Hedwig 
Somme
Dom
Snow
Emma
Strandiz

Ai
Andy
Alvin
Leanna
Justin
Lime
Melky

Trajan
Caedus
Aza
Adam
Bianca
Lily

___

We arrive in Flyukishilla. Strandiz and Emily are wanted due to the events of the last time they were here.

Querkus the Tree

___

# Location: Flyukishilla
Day 1

Somme and Hedwig                                                                        

Jim
 - Neighbor, Carriage driver

The Homestead is called Deadman Homestead, owned by Buck Deadman

Rumors were it was used as a secret whore house.

Plank -> son of a woodcrafter

Nuenmuller cultural festival happening in 7 days. Major Image Club
Ode of Reginaldus

School of Valdas
 - Valdas seems to be creating a new school to challenge the supremacy of the Nuenmuller company.

Gazette:
 - Goblin market
 - The union stays with Valdas
 - Based on the date, it's been 3 months since the Bone Dragon Affair
  
Somme pretended that the group was a large family of refugees from the Autumn Court under the name "Rozen". 
  - Cited Master Alonzo of Inkwell as a reference

Horatio the "friendly gnome"
  - Property office clerk
  - Very accommodating
  - Slight bias toward Valdas
  - Processed the puchase of the Deadman Homestead

Purchased Deadman Homestead
 - Paid the price of the homestead (500 gp)
 - Not paid the property taxes yet 
 - Need to stay in White Crow Tavern
   - owned by Lothar Mundric
   - cost of the inn is waived due to refugee status

Armscor
  - Strandiz
  - Emma
  - Alvin
  - Leanna
  - Andy
  - Ai
  - Melky
  - Justin
  - Lime

Flyukishilla
  - Hedwig
  - Somme
  - Adam
  - Bianca
  - Trajan
  - Aza
  - Caedus
  
  