+++
slug = "senera"
title = "Senera"
[taxonomies]
location_type = ["kingdom"]

+++

{{ stub() }}

# Geography

Senera is an island off the western coast of the
[Beteran Continent](@/locations/betera.md), and is separated from the mainland
by the [Princely Channel](@/locations/princely-channel.md). It's 

# History

## Kalassarian Invasion {#kalassarian-invasion}

## Fall of the Kalassarian Empire

## Independence and Rise of the Maidenfeld Dynasty

## War of Thyme and Fire

The Kingdom of Senera: From Imperial Province to Maritime Power

During the
[Western Kalassarian Empire](@/organizations/western-kalassarian-empire.md)'s
height, [Senera](@/locations/senera.md) and [Sanery](@/locations/sanery.md)
formed part of the empire's western maritime frontier. As an island prefecture,
Senera served as a crucial naval base, connected to the mainland through both
magically-powered transportation networks (enabled by _Ritma_) and conventional
maritime routes.

The decline of _Ritma_ - the mechanism for accessing magical power - from the
3rd century (~200s) onward reshaped this relationship. While other imperial
regions struggled with the loss of magically-enhanced logistics and
communication, Senera's established maritime infrastructure allowed it to
maintain relatively stable governance. When [Kalassus](@/locations/kalassus.md)
fell in 466, Senera was uniquely positioned to transition smoothly into
independence, only formally declaring itself a kingdom after the fall of the
[Potol region](@/locations/tanduaria.md#kalassarian-potol) to the
[Tandoor](@/ethnicities/tandoor.md).

The [House of Maidenfeld](@/families/maidenfeld.md) dynasty emerged during this
transition period (late 460s), establishing their rule over an intact
administrative system. Unlike many regions that had grown dependent on
magic-enhanced governance, Senera maintained functional government institutions
throughout the collapse. Their close relationship with Sanery, which remained
stable until the 450s due to its coastal position, allowed both regions to
preserve much of their shared Kalassarian heritage.

However, the fragmentation of the [Hapgarian region](@/locations/hapgaria.md)
created new political dynamics. While [Baraon](@/locations/baraon.md) descended
into rebellion and famine in the 440s - partly due to the loss of
magically-aided farming techniques - Senera and Sanery's maritime connections
initially helped them avoid the worst of the crisis. The Maidenfelds capitalized
on this stability to establish their spice trade networks, adapting the old
imperial infrastructure to operate without magical enhancement.

The rise of the [House of Dragonheart](@/families/dragonheart.md) dynasty marked
a shift toward more aggressive continental ambitions, particularly regarding
Sanery. This culminated in the failed military campaigns of the 900s:

Two successive kings of Senera, in their failed bid to expand their territories
southward and to the east, have lost favor with various factions within Senera.
The noble class who have bankrolled the many failed skirmishes against the
kingdoms of [Anasai](@/organizations/kingdom-of-anasai.md) and
[Estrega](@/organizations/kingdom-of-estrega.md), have become disillusioned
after many of the promises of land and wealth have not materialized after
decades.

These campaigns reflected an attempt to reassert regional dominance in a
post-_Ritma_ world, where the lack of magical capabilities made such
expansionist ambitions far more costly and complex. For centuries afterward,
Senera would focus primarily on maritime power and trade to maintain its
influence.

The return of _Ritma_ in the 1250s dramatically altered the political landscape.
When the [Poasan-Apgarian Conflict](@/events/poasan-apgarian-conflict.md)
erupted as the first major conflict of this new magical era, Senera saw an
opportunity to pursue its long-dormant territorial ambitions:
