+++
title = "The Maltreks"
[extra.location.details]
aliases = ["Maltrek Mountains", "Western Highlands"]
population = ""
[taxonomies]
location_type = ["Mountain Range"]
parent_location = ["Western Senera", "Senera"]
+++

_The Maltreks_ are a range of mountains in the northwest of Senera. They are the
longest mountain range in Senera, stretching for over 100 miles. The Maltreks
refer to two arms of the range, the Northern Maltreks and the Western Maltreks,
which are divided by Interloper Pass. The entirety of the range is administered
under the banner of the Duchy of Malthrek.

# Geography

## Boundaries

The Maltreks are bounded to the north and west by the Havel Ocean. To the east,
by the Feetbowls. To the south, by the Western Lowlands.

## Elevation

The highest point in the Maltreks is Mt. Sinitar, at 3,100 feet above sea level,
its lowest point is the Rocky Crevasse, at 1,000 feet above sea level. On
average, the range is about 2,300 feet above sea level.

## Morphology

### Western Maltreks

### Geological Features

#### Western Maltreks

The Western Maltreks are characterized by their steep, jagged peaks and sudden
drops. The rugged terrain is formed by erosion of the limestone caps, layered
upon a massive understructure of basalt formations. This creates a distinct
contrast between the hard, dark basalt formations and the lighter limestone
caps.

The upper slopes feature the lighter-colored limestone, and are known to house a
number of caves networks and karsts. The lower slopes feature the darker, harder
basalt layer which is only mostly visible in areas where erosion has stripped
away the limestone. [Melpel's Canyon](@/locations/melpels-canyon.md) close to
the southern tip of the range is one of the most notable features that show this
contrast in a spectacular fashion.

Due to the geography of the Western mountains, many caves have been formed as
water systems interact with the predominantly limestone upper layer. Lower
layers, the dark basalt have heat fractures that form narrow and jagged
entrances. Near [Mt Thibris](@/locations/mt-thibris.md), smooth ancient lava
tubes were found where the volcano emits sulfurous fumes. Between these layers
of white and black rock, caves where ancient lava flows have pierced though the
limestone, form natural hallways of captivating marble.

#### Northern Maltreks

Unlike its Western arm, the Northern Maltreks are primarily composed of basalt
upper layer, with intrusions of silica-rich rhyolite. The range features a more
rounded mountain profile, with the lower Scree slopes depositing talus at their
feet. However, the northern range also features a number of jagged volcanic
peaks with crooked spires and craggy, pockmarked faces.

Compared to the Western Maltreks, the northern arm exhibits more active volcanic
activity. This is evidenced not only by the 7 active volcanoes, but by scalding
outgassing from fissures from the hard rocky surface, that often have various
minerals forming in and around them, such as yellow sulfur crystals. The active
volcanology of these rocky mountains allows for conditions that are more
conducive to the formation of these mineral deposits. Various minerals and
elemental substances from underneath are brought to the surface as the intense
pressures are released as a result of volcanic activity. These are deposited on
the surface as ejecta, such as rock ane ashfall, or pyroclastic flows, or are
crystallized as outgassing cools along the fissures and cracks of the rock face.

Rich silicates form a variety of minerals and aggregates, such as obsidian,
chalcedony, beryl, sapphire, ruby, quartz, and geodes, all of which are found in
varying quantities. Metals such as gold, silver, and copper are also found in
the Northern Maltreks, often in the form of native elements, or in the form of
sulfides. Metal veins are found in various fissures, with lodes in cooled and
emptied magma chambers.

### Hydrology

#### Western Maltreks

Glacial meltwater from the peaks, and rainwater flow into the limestone caps
that form lakes and ponds on the surface, and then flow down into the extensive
karst aquifer system of the Western Maltreks, eroded through millenia.

This aquifer system provides a stable outflow for the Malter River system that
begins in [Melpel Drop](@/locations/melpel-drop.md) that carved the famous,
eponymous canyon.

Rainfall and meltwater fill above-ground aquifers, like Lake Sintormal and Lake
Tirtormal, both of which drain gradually into the Maltrek karst network. Some of
the inflow may also enter the system from sinkholes, sinking streams and
fractures on the mountain surface.

During the spring and summer months, when rainfall and glacial melt is at its
peak, pressure in the karst network is high, which contributes to seasonal
streams and outflows that form seasonal hot springs, and also flow eastward that
inundate the boggy areas of the [Footbowl Basin](@/locations/footbowl-basin.md)
east of the range.

During these high-pressure periods, water from the karst network is forced into
typically dry vents that reach down into hot plutonic formations. This seasonal
influx of water into these heated zones creates the famous geysers and hot
springs of the [Belaitar Geyser Field](@/locations/belaitar-geyser-field.md),
making their activity strongest during the wet spring and early summer months.
Locals venerate these geysers as an integral part of fertility and marital
traditions, and have drawn pilgrims into the area to both witness the
phenomenon, and to ask the spirits to bless them with children.

Year-round, the Western Maltreks karst system is the source a number of streams,
many of which feed into the [Malter River system](@/locations/malter-river.md).
Mountain springs, either from well-springs or waterfalls are also fed by the
consistency of karst aquifers in collecting, holding and releasing ground water.

#### Northern Maltreks

The Northern Maltreks' hydrology differs significantly from its western
counterpart. Water movement through the basaltic bedrock occurs primarily
through cooling fractures, tectonic fissures, and spaces between ancient lava
flows. This creates an irregular network of aquifers and groundwater paths,
rather than the organized karst system of the western arm.

Surface water patterns are more seasonal, with streams appearing and
disappearing based on rainfall and snowmelt. However, the volcanic nature of the
range adds complexity through geothermal activity. Hot springs, fumaroles, and
steam vents create unique hydrological features, while heated groundwater drives
mineral-rich solutions through rock fissures.

The combination of fractured basalt and volcanic heating creates numerous
springs along the mountain flanks, though these vary in temperature, mineral
content, and reliability. Some springs maintain consistent flow through
groundwater storage in the fractured rock, while others show strong seasonal
variation.

During wet seasons, surface runoff can be significant, as the basalt's fracture
networks become saturated. This seasonal flow, combined with snowmelt, feeds the
numerous streams that flow from the northern arm and contributes to the wetland
systems of the Footbowl Basin to the east.

### Mineralogy

#### Western Maltreks

The western arm's mineralogy is primarily defined by its limestone composition,
with exposed basalt beneath. The limestone layers host various calcite
formations, particularly in cave systems where complex crystalline structures
form. Iron oxide staining is common where water has interacted with the
underlying basalt, creating distinctive red and brown patterns on exposed
surfaces.

Contact zones between limestone and basalt layers show interesting mineral
variations. Where intense heat and pressure from ancient basalt intrusions met
limestone, valuable deposits of marble formed. These marble beds vary in color
from pure white to versions streaked with minerals from the basalt, creating
prized decorative stone. The same contact zones contain workable deposits of
lead and zinc ores, particularly galena and sphalerite, which can be found in
veins through both limestone and marble.

Small deposits of iron ore, mainly limonite and hematite, occur where the basalt
layer is exposed or near the surface. The limestone itself is quarried for
building stone and lime production. High-quality calcite crystals from cave
formations have both decorative and practical uses.

#### Northern Maltreks

The northern arm's volcanic nature creates a rich and diverse mineral
environment. The basaltic bedrock is intruded by silica-rich formations,
creating complex zones of mineral deposits. Surface deposits of sulfur around
fumaroles are easily gathered, while copper ores like malachite and azurite form
distinctive green and blue outcrops that are readily identifiable.

Iron ore is abundant, primarily as magnetite and hematite in large deposits that
can be surface-mined. Where hydrothermal activity has created ore bodies, miners
find rich veins of copper, lead, and silver-bearing galena. These often occur
together, making mining operations more profitable.

Gemstones form in cooling magmatic bodies and hydrothermal veins. Quartz
varieties like amethyst, chalcedony, and rock crystal are common, while rarer
finds include garnets and occasional sapphires. Obsidian, though not strictly a
mineral, is abundant in certain areas and highly prized for tools and
decoration.

## Climate

### Western Maltreks

The western arm experiences strong oceanic influences, with prevailing winds
bringing significant moisture from the Havel Ocean. Windward slopes face
frequent storms and salt spray, while leeward valleys enjoy more sheltered
conditions.

Winters are cool and wet, with occasional snow at higher elevations. Summers are
mild and relatively dry, though morning mist and fog are common. The karst
system moderates local temperatures through numerous caves and fissures.

Spring and autumn see the most rainfall, creating seasonal surges in the karst
aquifer system and increased spring activity.

### Northern Maltreks

The northern arm shows more continental characteristics despite its coastal
proximity. Volcanic activity creates local temperature variations and
distinctive microclimates around geothermal features.

Winters are colder than the western arm, with more frequent snow. Summers are
warmer, especially near active volcanic areas. Precipitation is more evenly
distributed throughout the year, though slightly lower than the western arm.

Thermal activity creates year-round steam vents and warm zones, supporting
unique ecological niches regardless of season.

## Vegetation

### Western Maltreks

Vegetation patterns in the western arm show stark contrasts between windward and
leeward slopes. The windward faces, exposed to strong ocean winds and salt
spray, support hardy, wind-sculpted vegetation. Trees like yew and hawthorn grow
stunted and angled, while tough shrubs such as juniper and gorse form low, dense
covers.

Protected leeward valleys support taller growth, with ash, lime, and oak trees
forming more substantial stands. However, the limestone substrate limits root
depth throughout the range, resulting in wide, shallow root systems even in
sheltered areas. The understory in these protected zones includes hazel, elder,
and dogwood, with diverse limestone-loving herbs and grasses in clearings.

Rock faces and limestone outcrops host specialized plant communities. Hardy
ferns like hart's tongue and maidenhair spleenwort colonize cracks and fissures,
while rock roses and wild thyme form patches on thin soils. Around karst springs
and seeps, distinctive communities of moisture-loving plants thrive, creating
green oases in the otherwise dry limestone landscape.

The limestone environment supports several edible species. Sheltered valleys
harbor wild apple and cherry trees, while hazelnuts are abundant in the
understory. The alkaline soils favor certain edible mushrooms, particularly
varieties of porcini and chanterelles in autumn months. Various edible herbs
like wild thyme, sage, and marjoram thrive on the thin limestone soils.

Limestone caves and shaded outcrops support distinctive fungi communities. Cave
mushrooms are particularly prized, while certain edible lichens grow on exposed
rock faces. Spring seeps support watercress beds, and seasonal moisture allows
for brief but productive periods of mushroom fruiting.

### Northern Maltreks

The northern arm's vegetation reflects its volcanic nature and more continental
climate. Plant communities here adapt to both the basaltic substrate and the
influence of geothermal activity. Around active volcanic features, specialized
heat-tolerant and sulfur-resistant plants form unique communities, often in
concentric rings based on temperature and chemical gradients.

The general slopes support more typical mountain vegetation, with plants adapted
to the basaltic soils and seasonal conditions. Tree growth is more uniform than
in the western arm, lacking the dramatic wind-sculpting effects. However, the
volcanic substrate and frequent rock falls create a dynamic landscape where
pioneer species regularly colonize new scree slopes and lava fields.

Seasonal streams and more consistent soil moisture support denser vegetation
than might be expected in such rocky terrain. Deep fissures in the basalt allow
for more substantial root systems than the western limestone areas, resulting in
more stable and mature forest communities where conditions permit.

Around thermal features, unique microclimates support specialized plant
communities year-round. These warm zones create patches of unusual growth
patterns, with some plants flowering out of season and others showing
adaptations to the constant heat and mineral-rich steam.

The basaltic soils and volcanic environment produce different edible species.
Mineral-rich soils support robust berry patches, including wild strawberries and
bilberries in season. Extensive mycorrhizal networks in the more stable forests
produce abundant mushroom crops, including prized varieties that favor the
acidic volcanic soils.

Around thermal areas, unique edible species thrive in the warm microclimates.
Some fungi fruit year-round in these zones, while certain heat-loving herbs grow
in naturally warmed soils. The areas where volcanic steam meets forest create
particularly rich mushroom hunting grounds, though careful knowledge of safe
zones is essential.

## River Systems

### Footbowl River System

The Footbowl Basin's primary waterways demonstrate the distinct hydrological
characteristics of both mountain arms. The main river system, fed by the Western
Maltreks' karst aquifers, provides stable, year-round flow. These waters, rich
in dissolved minerals from their limestone journey, maintain consistent volume
and temperature throughout the year, creating reliable channels through the
basin's wetlands.

Tributaries from the Northern Maltreks show more seasonal variation. During
spring snowmelt and wet seasons, these streams surge with water, expanding the
basin's wetland areas and creating temporary waterways. In drier periods, many
of these northern tributaries reduce to smaller streams or seeps, though some
maintain flow through the fractured basalt aquifer system.

This combination of stable karst-fed rivers and seasonal volcanic-terrain
streams creates a dynamic wetland environment. The reliable western waters
maintain permanent waterways and deep pools, while the fluctuating northern
inputs create seasonal flooding and shifting wetland zones, contributing to the
basin's diverse ecological patterns.

### Malter River System

The Malter River emerges dramatically at the contact zone of the Western
Maltreks, where a series of travertine terraces cascade down to meet exposed
basalt below. These terraces, built up over millennia from mineral-rich karst
waters, display striking bands of color - from pure whites to iron-reds and
copper-greens - recording the complex mineral history of the mountain's
interior.

The travertine formations create natural pools and falls before the water
reaches the darker basalt layers, where the river proper begins its course.
These terraces continue to grow and evolve, with new mineral deposits constantly
adding to their structure, while seasonal variations create distinctive banding
patterns in the fresh deposits.

The river proper emerges from these tiered formations carrying a unique mix of
sediments from both the travertine and basalt zones. The initial stretch shows
higher sediment loads from mineral precipitation and basalt weathering, creating
distinctive colored deposits and mixed mineral banks. As the river continues, it
gradually transitions to clearer karst waters typical of limestone regions.

The river's visible course runs from these dramatic emergence points to
Malterdale, flowing through a relatively narrow corridor rather than a broad
valley. The limestone bedrock remains close to the surface along its course,
with the river occasionally cutting through exposed rock formations. The
consistent depth and volume from its karst source makes this stretch navigable
for river boats, though the narrow course requires skilled navigation around
limestone outcrops.

Beyond Malterdale, the river disappears into the Western Lowlands' karst system.
This subterranean portion creates an extensive underground network, connecting
with the larger Rannek Karst. While the river itself is hidden, its presence is
marked by strings of sinkholes, springs, and seasonal lakes across the lowlands.
Many of these sinkholes act as "karst windows," where the underground river
becomes briefly visible in deep, water-filled depressions before disappearing
again into the limestone. During dry seasons, these windows provide crucial
glimpses of the river's path and water level, while in wet seasons they may
become overflow points for the subterranean system.

The river's stable flow and mineral content have created fertile valleys along
its visible course, while its underground portion has shaped the unique karst
landscape of the Western Lowlands. These karst windows, along with related
surface features, have historically helped locals track the river's hidden
course and predict seasonal water patterns. The consistent volume of its surface
portion makes it a reliable route for navigation and transport between the
mountains and Malterdale.
