+++
title = "Cotto"
[extra]
ddb = "https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/61017558"
[extra.cha]
age = "24"
pronouns = "He/Him"
sex = "Male"
species = "Cornups"
[taxonomies]
organizations = ["La Camaraderie","Rozenmaiden","Ministry of the Occult"]
+++

*Cotto* is a deckhand serving in the
[Rozenmaiden](@/organizations/rozenmaiden.md), and a member of [La
Camaraderie](@/organizations/la-camaraderie.md). Born in a homestead in the
north-western reaches of [Carmar](@/locations/carmar.md), his
identity as a [Cornups](@/species/cornups.md) had always branded him as an
outcast, but as he'd found himself with the crew of the Rozenmaiden, he'd
finally begin to understand what it meant to be comfortable with himself and
others.

# History

## Early Life

He did not remember much about his mother and father, not even their names
remained fresh in his mind. All he remembered from his early childhood was that
he had slowly manifested features that were considered "devilish". By age three,
a small nub at the end of his spine began to form into a tail. When he turned
five, little horns began to sprout from the sides of his forehead. His parents,
being a part of a very superstitious community, tried all they could to hide his
peculiarities from the rest of the town.

At the time, Cotto's tail was barely an inch long, so it was easily hidden by
wearing a pair of tight underwear. However, his growing horns was not that easy
to hide. At first, his parents kept his hair long enough to conceal the
calcified bumps that formed, but in only a few months after, it began to poke
through. His father, one night had his mother hold him down as he rasped the
little horns flat. That first time was very traumatic to the young Cotto,
mentioning that he'd still sometimes have visceral nightmares of his father and
the head-splitting sensation that rattled his head until he'd pass out, not even
able to wail, since his mother would stuff his mouth with a cloth gag.

By the time he'd turned seven, his skin would slowly turn in to a leathery red
that could no longer be hidden, or filed away. He was kept in the house, never
to leave. A kindly old man would come to teach him how to read and write. He  
left him some books to read, and some ink and paper to practice writing with.

The next year, he'd fall in to a terrible fever that caused his legs to swell
and decay. The kindly old man, being a healer, did what he can to suppress the
symptoms, but to no avail. All he could do to prevent necrosis from spreading to
the rest of his body, was to amputate his left leg.

During the autumn harvest in the homestead, it was discovered that the crop had
suffered intense frost, rotting a large portion before it could be sold. Cotto's
father started to believe that this was a punishment from the Angel of Nature
for nurturing the unnatural Cotto. At this point his father wanted nothing to do
with the boy, but did nothave the heart to kill him himself, so he decided to
bring Cotto to the southern border, near the freeholds to be sold to some
slavers. It was during this journey that Cotto escaped his father and ran into
the [Faustine Forest] bordering Carmar and [Sartoria](@/locations/sartoria.md).

## Mephistophelian Pact

Cold and alone, Cotto tried to find his way out of the forest, with little
success. His attempts to catch small prey, such as rabbits, were unsuccessful.
Cotto was able to find shelter in a small cave formed under the roots of a
massive maple tree, called the *Mother Maple* by local woodsmen. The sweet sap
from the maple was barely able to sustain him. The harsh Carmarian winter of
1167 brought the poor boy to the brink of death.

Unable to move and delirious from hunger, Cotto started to hear a voice
compelling him to crawl deeper into the small cave. He began to crawl in his
enfeebled state until he found himself in front of a frozen throne. A man,
probably 14 feet tall sat imperiously upon the throne, his face concealed by a
shroud of darkness. Within his mind, the red-skinned man who introduced himself
as *Erasmus* offered Cotto a deal. Cotto would be given the power to survive on
his own if he would agree to serve his master. In desperation, the child agreed
to the deal, making him a warlock of the mysterious *Mephistopheles*.

He would awaken in the morning, under the small nook underneath the Mother
Maple, with no sign of the crawlspace that had led him to Erasmus' throne. As he
emerged from the cave, he was no longer affected by the cold of the winter air.
His hunger was gone, and he was able to move around freely. Eventually he made
his way out of the forest, guided by a silent voice into a small parochial
[Baraonian](@/locations/baraon.md) village.

## Followers of the Goat

In the two years since he was lost in the forest, Cotto had tried to find any
information about his true nature, and that of his pact-holder. Though the voice
in his head taught him to survive, they would not answer any direct questions
regarding their identity. The voice had him on various errands around Baraon,
bringing various items and letters to certain individuals in different villages
around the Baraonian capital of
